Apple Slab Pie

This version of apple pie would be the perfect potluck dish, as it can easily
be made 24 hours ahead. It uses four pie crusts, and the test kitchen found
that the store-bought from Pillsbury was not only easier for most home cooks,
it was sturdier than homemade (likely because of the shortening).

An animal cracker/sugar mixture and brushed-on melted butter gave a boost of
richness the store-bought dough lacked, and tapioca works as a great
thickener - better than cornstarch or flour. Use one kind of apple that holds
its shape well (like Golden Delicious) and one with better flavor, like the
Granny Smiths.

Serves 18 to 20.

Pie
8 Granny Smith apples (about 3 ½ pounds), peeled, cored and sliced thin
8 Golden Delicious apples (about 3 ½ pounds), peeled, corned and sliced thin
1 ½ cups granulated sugar, divided
Salt
1 ½ cups animal crackers (about 4 oz)
2 (15-oz) boxes Pillsbury refrigerated pie crust (2 pie rounds each)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
6 tablespoons Minute tapioca
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 tablespoons lemon juice

Glaze
¾ cup reserved apple juice (from filling)
2 tablespoons lemon juice
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 ¼ cups confectioner's sugar

For the pie: Combine apples, 1 cup sugar and salt in colander set over large
bowl. Let sit, tossing occasionally, until apples release their juices, about
30 minutes. Press gently on apples to extract liquid and reserve ¾ cup juice.

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 350 degrees. Pulse
crackers and remaining sugar in food processor until finely ground. Dust work
surface (a counter works well) with cracker mixture, brush half of wine pie
round with water, overlap with second pie round, and dust top with cracker
mixture. Roll out dough to 19 by 14 inches (test by simply holding the pan
over the rolled-out dough) and transfer to rimmed baking sheet. Brush dough
with butter and refrigerate; roll out top crust in the same way.

Toss drained apples with tapioca, cinnamon and lemon juice and arrange evenly
over bottom crust, pressing lightly to flatten. Brush edges of bottom crust
with water and arrange top curst on pie. Press crusts together and use a
paring knife to trim any excess dough. Use fork to crimp and seal outside
edge of pie, then to pierce top of pie at 2-inch intervals. Bake until pie is
golden brown and juices are bubbling, about 1 hour. Transfer to wire rack and
let cool 1 hour.

For the glaze: While pie is cooling, simmer reserved apple juice in saucepan
over medium heat until syrupy and reduced to ¼ cup, about 6 minutes. Stir in
lemon juice and butter and let cool to room temperature. Whisk in
confectioners' sugar and brush glaze evenly over warm pie (a silicone pastry
brush works well for this). Let pie cool completely, at least 1 hour longer.
Serve.
