Baked Buffalo Wings
By Ali Slagle
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019952-baked-buffalo-wings

Yield: 4 servings
Time: 35 minutes, plus brining (optional)

Blue cheese dip:

3 ounces blue cheese, crumbled (about 3/4 cup)
¼ cup mayonnaise
¼ cup sour cream
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice or apple cider vinegar
1 to 3 tablespoons milk or buttermilk, or to taste
Kosher salt and black pepper

Chicken wings:

3 pounds chicken wings, or any combination of drumettes, wingettes and tips
1 tablespoon baking powder
Kosher salt and black pepper
⅓ cup Buffalo-style hot sauce, such as Frank’s
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 garlic cloves, minced (about 2 teaspoons)

Make the blue cheese dip: In a small bowl, stir together blue cheese,
mayonnaise, sour cream and lemon juice. Thin with milk until spoonable.
Season with salt and pepper and set aside. (Dip keeps for up to 4 days in the
refrigerator; thin as needed with more milk.)

Place an oven rack 4 to 6 inches from the broiler. Heat the broiler.

Prepare the chicken: Pat the wings dry. If the wings are not yet broken down
into three pieces, cut each wing at the two joints. To do so, flip the wing
over and wiggle each part to find the joint. Cut at the joint hinge to separate
the meaty drumette from the wingette (also known as the flat) and the wingette
from the smaller wing tip.

In a large bowl, toss the baking powder with 1 tablespoon kosher salt. Add the
wings and toss until evenly coated. Spread the wings in an even layer on a
foil-lined baking sheet. (To prepare them in advance and allow them to
dry-brine, let the wings sit out at room temperature for up to 1 hour after
coating, or in the refrigerator overnight. Let them come to room temperature
before proceeding.)

Broil the wings in the oven until golden and crisp all over, turning halfway
through, about 15 minutes per side.

As wings cook, make the buffalo sauce: In a large bowl, stir together the hot
sauce, butter, lemon juice and garlic. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

Transfer the wings to the hot sauce-mixture and toss to coat. Using a slotted
spoon, return the wings to the baking sheet, leaving extra sauce behind. Broil
until sizzling and browned in spots, about 5 minutes. (Depending on your
broiler, you may need to rotate the pan so all the food is exposed to the heat
source.)

Serve with extra buffalo sauce and the blue cheese dip.
