BBQ Tofu Bowl
http://www.wordsandwhisks.com/2013/05/bbq-tofu-bowl.html

14 oz. block extra-firm tofu, drained and pressed
about 1 1/3 cup BBQ sauce of your choice
1 {16-ounce} can blackeye peas, drained and rinsed
1 package rice of your choice (or whatever amount you want for serving; I made 2 cups of uncooked rice in 4 cups of water and had plenty of rice leftover--1 cup rice should be sufficient for two)
1 bunch kale
olive oil, salt, pepper
lime (optional)
avocado (optional)
shredded white cheddar cheese for topping (optional, but highly recommended)

Slice the block of tofu into approximately 1-inch (or smaller) cubes.  Place
them in a long, shallow bowl and cover them with about a cup of your favorite
BBQ sauce.  You don't have to measure out the BBQ sauce so long as you ensure
that your tofu is entirely coated with the BBQ sauce.  Allow the tofu to
marinate for an hour or all day (I let mine marinate all day).

When ready for dinner, start by boiling the water for your rice, which you
will prepare per the package directions.  Prepare your rice according to
package directions (even according to that package direction that says you
can throw a tablespoon or so of butter at the end of cooking!).

Next, get your tofu ready to bake, as this takes the longest.  Line a rimmed
baking sheet with a silicone mat or parchment paper and spread tofu evenly
over the baking sheet.  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  Bake tofu for 20
minutes.  Remove the tofu from the oven and flip.  Bake tofu for another 10 to
15 minutes or until it is brown and chewy.

As you are putting the tofu in the oven, prepare the kale.  Start by tearing
the kale into small chip-sized pieces.  Place torn kale in a large bowl and
toss with a little olive oil (less than 1 tablespoon or so, but you don't
really need to measure).  Toss kale with salt and pepper.  Spread kale on a
baking sheet (you'll probably need two), and place in the oven with the tofu.
If you have to spread your kale onto two baking sheets like me, you'll
probably just do one tray at a time.  Bake kale at 400 degrees F for about
10 minutes or until the chips lookscrispy.  Remove from the oven and bake the
second tray the same way.

As everything is baking/cooking up on the stove, dump your blackeye peas into
a small saucepan.  Heat with the rest of the BBQ sauce (or more than the 1/3
cup called for above if you really like sauce).  Serve hot.

To assemble the bowls, layer the rice at the bottom, then spoon hot blackeye
peas over the top.  Sprinkle the blackeye peas with the toasted kale chips and
then finally add the tofu.  I also highly recommend generously sprinkling some
seriously sharp white cheddar on top.  Also, add sliced avocado (alas!  mine
were bad.).  Enjoy with extra BBQ sauce or even some Sriracha!

Makes a little more than 2 servings (lunch!).
