Veggie Pot Pie with Black Pepper Biscuits (makes 10 to 12 servings)
- Adapted from Joy the Baker

For the Biscuits:
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
1 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper
1/4 cup (2 ounces) unsalted butter, cold and cut into cubes
4 ounces (half of a brick) cream cheese, cold
3/4 cup buttermilk, cold

For the Filling:
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 cups veggie broth
1 1/2 cups whole milk (or buttermilk
4 ounces (half of a brick) cream cheese
salt and pepper to taste
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 tablespoons butter or olive oil
1 small onion, diced
1 leek, chopped
1 small garlic clove, minced
1 1/2 cup thinly diced carrots
1 cup diced zucchini
1 cup chopped mushrooms
1 cup broccoli florets (fresh or frozen)
1 1/2 cup frozen peas

Start by making the biscuits.  In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking
powder, baking soda, salt, sugar, black pepper, and chopped chives.

Add butter and cream cheese to the dry ingredients.  Use your fingers to
quickly incorporate the fat into the flour.  Break up the butter and cream
cheese with your fingers until some of the fat is the size of oat flakes and
some of the fat is the size of small pebbles.

Make a small well in the center of the fat and flour mixture.  Add the
buttermilk.  Using a fork, combine the wet and dry ingredients.  Try to
moisten all of the flour bits with the liquid.  Dump the shaggy biscuit dough
onto a lightly floured work surface.  Knead together until dough forms a disk
about 1 1/2 inches thick.

Use a round, 1 1/2-inch biscuit cutter (or jam jar) to cut biscuits.  Gather
the dough scraps, knead for a few turns, and cut out more biscuits until no
dough remains.  Place biscuits on a small cookie sheet and place in the
fridge until ready to bake.

Next, make the filling.  Place a rack in the center of the oven and preheat
oven to 400 degrees F.

Prep the vegetables, put them in a large mixing bowl and set aside.

In an oven proof stock pot (a le Creuset or something like that) over medium
heat, melt butter.  Whisk in the flour.  Mixture will be very thick.  Heat for
1 minute.  Turn flame to low and add the vegetable stock.  Whisk until no
flour bits remain.  Whisk in the milk and add the cream cheese.  Heat over
medium low heat, stirring often, until cream cheese has melted and the mixture
is the consistency of warm, thick pudding.  Add lemon, and nutmeg.  Stir.  Add
salt and pepper to taste.   Remove mixture from heat and set aside. (note- if
you don’t have an oven proof stock pot, simply use any sauce pot and then
transfer the mix to a baking dish later)

In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt butter (or olive oil, if using).
Add onions and saute until translucent, about 3 minutes.  Add minced garlic
and saute for one minute more.  Add the vegetable mix.  Cook for  about 3
minutes until veggies become bright and colorful.  The vegetables will not be
entirely cooked through.  Remove from heat and add vegetable mixture to the
creamy mixture.  Stir to combine.

Remove the biscuits from the fridge and place them on top of the filling.
Brush the tops of the biscuits with heavy cream, buttermilk, or egg wash.

Bake the whole dish for 20-23 minutes, or until biscuits are puffed and
golden, and the sides of the pot pie are bubbling.  Remove from the oven and
allow to cool slightly before serving.

To reheat, preheat the oven to 300 degrees F.  Cover dish with foil and bake
until warmed through, about 15 minutes.  Serve. Veggie Pot Pie will keep for
up to 4 days in the fridge. It's also best reheated in the oven verses the
microwave.
