Old-Fashioned Butterscotch Pudding
By Melissa Clark
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1021800-old-fashioned-butterscotch-pudding

Yield 4 servings
Time 30 minutes, plus 2 hours’ chilling

4 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
3/4 packed cup/165 grams dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
2 cups/480 milliliters whole milk
1 cup/240 milliliters heavy cream
1 tablespoon bourbon or Scotch whisky (optional)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Whipped cream, sour cream or crème fraîche, for serving
Chopped candied ginger, sliced almonds, Demerara sugar, shaved chocolate,
   cocoa nibs or flaky sea salt (or a combination), for garnish (optional)

Put egg yolks, cornstarch and salt into a large heatproof bowl, and whisk
until the mixture is smooth and there are no lumps.

In a medium pot over medium heat, combine brown sugar and butter, whisking,
until the brown sugar melts, 1 to 2 minutes. Let cook, whisking constantly,
until the mixture starts to smell like hot caramel and darkens slightly,
about 1 minute longer. (Don’t walk away, or the mixture may burn.)

Immediately pour the milk and cream into the pot. (It will bubble fiercely and
seize up.) Continue to cook, whisking constantly, until the clumps melt, 2 to
4 minutes.

Slowly whisk about 1/2 cup of the hot cream mixture into the bowl with the egg
yolks, whisking yolks until smooth, then whisk in the remaining hot cream
mixture. Pour the egg-cream mixture back into the saucepan and place it over
medium heat.

Cook pudding, whisking constantly especially around the bottom and edges of
the pot, until it comes to a full boil. (Don’t worry about the eggs curdling.
You’re going to strain the mixture later.) Reduce heat to medium-low and cook,
stirring the mixture constantly, until it thickens enough to mound thickly on
the spoon, 4 to 7 minutes. If at any point the pudding looks curdled, whisk to
help smooth it out.

Strain mixture through a fine sieve into a heatproof container or bowl, then
stir in the Scotch or bourbon, if using, and vanilla. To prevent a skin from
forming, press plastic wrap directly onto the surface of the pudding. (If you
like the skin, don’t cover pudding until it cools.) Chill for at least 2 hours
and up to 2 days.

When serving, spoon pudding into dishes. Top with dollops of whipped cream,
sour cream or crème fraîche, and any of the optional garnishes.

Tip: Make sure to bring the pudding to a full, vigorous boil to activate the
cornstarch. Otherwise, it may not set. If you’ve ever ended up with thin,
runny pudding, undercooking may have been the issue.
