Cauliflower Gnocchi
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020164-cauliflower-gnocchi

For the gnocchi:
1/2 small head cauliflower (about 8 ounces)
1 medium russet potato (about 8 ounces)
3/4 cup all-purpose flour (about 4 ounces), plus more for dusting
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 large egg yolk
Extra-virgin olive oil, for greasing

For the assembly:
1/2 cup unsalted butter (1 stick)
2 tablespoons drained capers
Kosher salt and black pepper
1 cup thinly sliced radishes (about 4 ounces)
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Chopped chives, for garnish

Make the gnocchi: Heat oven to 450 degrees. Wrap cauliflower and potato
separately in aluminum foil. Roast on a baking sheet until tender, 1 hour.
Unwrap and let cool slightly. Cut cauliflower into 4 equal pieces and transfer
to a large bowl. Halve potato lengthwise and scoop out flesh into bowl;
discard skin.

Press roasted cauliflower and potato through a ricer onto a clean work
surface. Sprinkle 3/4 cup flour and the salt evenly on top and set the yolk on
the vegetables. Using a bench scraper or long side of a metal spatula, cut
into the mixture, folding over and blending in the flour and yolk into the
riced cauliflower mixture, until well incorporated, dusting work surface with
flour occasionally to prevent sticking. Gather mixture into a ball and gently
knead a few times to form a soft dough. Cut into 2 equal pieces.

Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Meanwhile, working with one piece of
dough at a time, roll into a 3/4-inch-thick log that is about 24 inches long.
Using a sharp knife, cut into 1-inch pieces and transfer gnocchi to a lightly
floured baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough.

Add half the gnocchi to boiling water and cook until they start to float,
then simmer just until puffed and cooked through, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes longer.
(Do pay attention: If the gnocchi are boiled too long, they will start to
disintegrate.) Using a spider or slotted spoon, transfer gnocchi to an oiled
baking sheet and roll to generously coat in oil to prevent gnocchi from
sticking to one another. Repeat with remaining gnocchi.

In a large nonstick skillet, melt 4 tablespoons butter over medium heat. Add
half the gnocchi and half the capers and season with salt and pepper. Cook,
stirring occasionally, until gnocchi is golden and crispy, about 5 minutes.
Stir in half of radishes and half of lemon juice (it may splatter). Divide in
2 shallow bowls and top with chives. Repeat with remaining butter, gnocchi,
capers, radishes, lemon juice and chives.
