Cheese Enchiladas With Chili Gravy
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018154-cheese-enchiladas-with-chili-gravy
Yield: 4 to 6 servings
Time: 1 hour

For the chili gravy: 
1/4 cup neutral oil, like canola, or use lard or chicken or beef fat
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon kosher salt, or to taste
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper, or to taste
1-1/2 teaspoons garlic powder
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano, ideally Mexican oregano
2 tablespoons chile powder
2 cups chicken broth, ideally homemade or low-sodium if store-bought

For the enchiladas:

1/2 cup neutral oil, like canola
12 yellow corn tortillas
3 cups shredded Cheddar cheese, or a mixture of 1 1/2 cups Cheddar cheese
       and 1 1/2 cups American cheese, like Velveeta
1 medium-size white onion, peeled and chopped

Prepare the chili gravy: In a medium saute pan set over medium-high heat,
heat oil or fat until it begins to shimmer. Whisk in flour and stir
continuously until it turns into a light brown roux, roughly the color of
coffee ice cream, about 10 minutes.

Add salt, pepper, garlic powder, cumin, oregano and chile powder and whisk to
combine, then continue whisking for another minute or so, until roux becomes
fragrant.

Add chicken broth, slowly, 1/2 cup at a time, whisking until sauce begins to
thicken. Turn heat to low and let sauce simmer an additional 15 minutes or so.
Add broth as needed to adjust the thickness of the gravy. Keep warm.

Heat oven to 450 degrees.

Prepare the tortillas: In a medium saute pan set over medium-high heat, heat
oil until it begins to shimmer. Using tongs or a wide spatula, place a
tortilla in the hot fat; it should start to bubble immediately. Heat tortilla
for about 10 to 15 seconds a side, until soft and lightly browned. Remove
tortilla and set on a rack set over a baking pan, or just on a baking pan if
you don’t have a rack. Repeat with remaining tortillas, working quickly.

Using a ladle, put about 1/2 cup chili gravy in the bottom of an 8-by-13-inch
baking pan and spread it out a little. Roll a few tablespoons of cheese into
each tortilla, then place it seam-side down in the pan, nestling each one
against the last. Ladle chili gravy over the top of the rolled tortillas and
sprinkle remaining cheese over the top.  Make sure to leave some bare tortilla
peeking out on each side of the gravy and cheese so it grows crackly and
awesome.

Transfer to oven and bake until sauce bubbles and cheese is melted,
approximately 10 to 15 minutes. Sprinkle chopped onions over top and serve
immediately.
