Chicken Etouffee
2 hours | 55 min prep
SERVES 4 , 8 pieces

Paul Prudhomme's killer chicken etouffee. Not something you'd want to eat
every day but for New Year's or Fat Tuesday, perfect. It's a bit rich so
I've adapted it to make it a little less so. I generally cut the peppers in
the seasoning mix down to 1/4 of the amount on the ingredients list. Some
consider me a wimp. You've been warned! Cook time for stock and rice is not
included.

Chicken Stock for Etouffee
1/2 lb chicken back or chicken neck
3 cups cold water
1/2 medium onion, unpeeled
1 garlic clove, unpeeled and cut in thirds
1 stalk celery, with top
1 bay leaf

Flour Coating
10 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon red pepper

Fried Chicken
3 lbs chicken pieces
salt
garlic powder
ground red pepper (preferably cayenne)
vegetable oil (for deep frying)

Seasoning Mix
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground red pepper (preferably cayenne)
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 cup chopped onion
1/4 cup chopped celery
1/4 cup chopped green bell pepper

Roux and Gravy
6 tablespoons flour, using reserved extra flour coating
1 3/4 cups chicken stock, for etouffee

Finish
4-6 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided, to your taste
6 tablespoons very finely chopped green onions
chicken stock, as needed
2 cups hot cooked rice

Chicken Stock for Etouffee: Put chicken in water and bring to boil; add
vegetables and bay leaf; simmer on low heat for 1-2 hours; replenish water
as needed to keep 2 3/4 cups of liquid in the pot; strain and use
immediately or refrigerate.

Flour Coating: Combine all ingredients in a plastic bag.

Fried Chicken: Generously rub all the chicken pieces with the seasonings;
set aside at room temperature for 30 minutes; heat 1 1/2" oil to 375°F in
a cast iron skillet; add chicken to flour coating and shake to coat
thoroughly; reserve any excess flour.

Fry chicken until browned and cooked through, about 8 minutes per side;
drain on paper towels and set aside; pour oil from skillet, retaining, and
scraping loose, any browned bits, and 1/4 cup of the oil in the skillet.

Seasoning Mix: In a small bowl thoroughly combine all dry ingredients; set
aside; combine chopped vegetables in separate bowl and set aside.

Roux: Heat the oil over high heat in a large, heavy skillet until it begins
to smoke, about 5 minutes; remove from heat; use a LONG handled whisk and
gradually mix in flour; reduce heat to medium-high; return skillet to heat
and cook, stirring constantly, until roux is dark red-brown, 3-5 minutes;
don't let roux scorch and DON'T get it on your skin!

Remove from heat and stir in HALF the combined vegetables; stir for 3
minutes while the roux cools down; set aside.

Gravy: Bring the stock to a boil in a 2-quart saucepan; gradually whisk in
roux and stir until incorporated; bring mixture to a rolling boil; reduce
heat to low; continue stirring and simmer another 15 minutes; gravy should be
very thick; set aside.

Finish: In a large skillet, melt 2-3 T butter over very low heat; stir in
remaining chopped vegetables and sauté 10-12 minutes, until completely
wilted stirring occasionally; add the reserved gravy and the dry Seasoning
Mix; simmer another 15 minutes and stir often.

In a 4-quart saucepan, melt the remaining 2-3 T butter; sauté the green
onions 2 minutes; add the chicken and gravy and bring to a boil over medium
heat; remove from heat and set aside for 15 minutes.

Skim oil off surface of etouffee; reheat, adding more stock if needed to
thin the gravy; for each plate place 1/2 cup rice, pour on 1/3 cup sauce,
and top with 2 pieces of chicken; serve immediately.
