8 tablespoons Canola oil
5 10" to 12" corn tortillas 
1 onion
6 garlic cloves
1 small bunch of cilantro
2 - 14.5 oz. cans of crushed tomatoes 
8 cups chicken stock 
14 ounces of canned or frozen corn 
3/4 - 1 1/2 Tablespoons ground cumin 
1/2 - 1 Tablespoon chili powder 
4 bay leaves 
4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves or try thighs
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
juice from 1 lime

Dice the onion and mince the garlic. Wash and towel try the cilantro, remove
stems and chop. Open your cans of tomatoes and have them at the ready. You
don't have to measure out all the spices unless you like the way they have it
all ready on the cooking shows. Rince the chicken under cold water and dry.
 
You can make this all in one large soup pot or fry the tortilla strips in one
and make the soup in another. I like to clean as few pots as possible
especially when I'm working one handed. Cut up 2 of the tortillas into 1/4 inch
strips and fry them in 3 tablespoons of Canola oil. You want them to be a golden
brown but be careful not to burn them, they cook quickly. Depending on the size
of your pot, you may have to cook several at a time. Remove the strips from pot
and transfer to some paper towels to drain. Season with a little salt.

Heat the remaining oil over medium high heat and saute the onions for a couple
of minutes. Then add garlic and saute for another minute or two. Tear the
remaining 3 corn tortillas into bite size pieces and add to the pot.

Now add the cilantro, stir, and cook for a minute more. Add the canned tomatoes
with their juice and the chicken stock, cumin, chili powder, and bay leaves and
bring to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer, add the corn, whole chicken breasts,
and cayenne. Simmer the chicken breasts for 15 to 20 minutes until cooked
throughout. Remove the chicken breasts and put aside to cool. Turn off the
soup at this point.

Once the chicken breasts are cool, shred them with your hands and return to the
pot. Add your lime juice and taste for spiciness. If you like it hotter, add
more of the spices. Reheat, and serve with the fried tortilla strips..

My neighbor served this soup with the fried tortillas, freshly diced avocado,
grated cheddar cheese, and sour cream. The sour cream really helped mellow out
some of the spices and gave the soup a wonderful creamy appearance. This soup
is a meal. It's great for a party or a dinner, and the leftovers are perfect for
the baby-sitter if you decide to go out later in the week.

5/3/05 - I made this soup for a party and by mistake defrosted chicken thighs
instead of chicken breasts and it made no difference. I take that back, I think
it was better. Not only did it make the recipe more economical, I think the
thighs gave it more flavor.
