Greek Chicken Gyros with Tzaziki
https://www.recipetineats.com/greek-chicken-gyros-with-tzatziki/
Prep Time: 20 mins
Cook Time: 6 mins
Marinade: 3 hrs
Total Time: 26 mins
Servings: 4 - 6

2 lb / 1 kg chicken thigh fillets, boneless skinless

Marinade:
3 large garlic cloves, minced (~ 3 tsp)
1 tbsp white wine vinegar (or red wine or apple cider vinegar)
3 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
3 tbsp Greek yogurt, preferably full fat
1 1/2 tbsp dried oregano
1 tsp salt
Black pepper

Tzatziki:
2 cucumbers (to make about 1/2 - 3/4 cup grated cucumber after squeezing out juice)
1 1/4 cups Greek yoghurt, preferably full fat
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil (or more if you want richer)
1 garlic clove, minced
1/4 tsp salt
Black pepper

Salad:
3 tomatoes, desseeded and diced
3 cucumbers, diced
1/2 red spanish onion, peeled and finely chopped
1/4 cup fresh parsley leaves (optional)
Salt and pepper

4 to 6 pita breads or flat breads

Place the marinade ingredients in a ziplock bag and massage to mix. Add the
chicken into the ziplock bag and massage to cover all the chicken in the
Marinade. Marinate for at least 2 hours, preferably 3 hours, ideally 12 hours
and no longer than 24 hours.  (Chicken can be frozen in marinade uncooked. Once
thawed, massage well to remove curdling then cook per recipe!)

Make the tzatziki: Cut the cucumber in half lengthwise. Use a teaspoon to
scrape the watery seeds out. Coarsely grate the cucumber using a box grater.
Then wrap in paper towels or a tea towel and squeeze to remove excess liquid.
Place cucumber in a bowl. Add remaining ingredients then mix to combine. Set
aside for at least 20 minutes for the flavours to meld.

Combine Salad ingredients in a bowl.

Brush the outdoor grill with oil, then preheat on medium high. Or heat 1 tbsp
of oil in a fry pan over medium high heat.

Remove chicken from Marinade. Cook the chicken for 2 to 3 minutes on each
side, until golden brown and cooked through (cooking time depends on size of
chicken).

Remove the chicken from the grill / fry pan onto a plate. Cover loosely with
foil and allow to rest for 5 minutes before serving.  If your chicken thighs
are large, you may need to cut them.

Get a pita bread or flatbread (preferably warmed) and place it on a piece of
parchment (baking) paper (or you could use foil). Place some Salad down the
middle of the bread, then top with chicken and Tzatziki.

Roll the wrap up, enclosing it with the parchment paper. Twist the end with
the excess parchment paper to secure it and cut if desired.

I prefer to lay everything out on a table and let everyone help themselves.
