Chicken Piccata (Fried Chicken Cutlets With Lemon-Butter Pan Sauce) Recipe
http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2017/01/print/chicken-piccata-italian-fried-cutlet-recipe.html
Serves 4
ACTIVE TIME: 45 minutes
TOTAL TIME: 45 minutes

1 cup all-purpose flour (5 ounces; 140g)
3 large eggs, beaten
2 cups panko bread crumbs (4 ounces; 115g), roughly crushed by hand if very
        large
2 ounces (60g) grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
8 boneless, skinless chicken cutlets (3 or 4 ounces each), pounded to about
        1/4 inch thick
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
Vegetable oil, for frying
1/2 cup dry white wine (120ml)
1 1/2 tablespoons drained capers (15g)
5 tablespoons unsalted butter (70g)
2 tablespoons fresh juice from 1 lemon (30ml)
1 1/2 tablespoons minced flat-leaf parsley

Set three wide, shallow bowls on a work surface. Add flour to the first one,
beaten eggs to the second, and panko and Parmesan cheese to the third. Mix
panko and Parmesan thoroughly.

Line a rimmed baking dish with parchment paper. Season chicken cutlets all
over with salt and pepper. Working with one at a time, dredge a cutlet in
flour with your left hand, shaking off excess. Transfer to egg dish, then turn
cutlet with your right hand to coat both sides. Lift and allow excess egg to
drain off, then transfer to bread crumb mixture. With your left hand, scoop
bread crumbs on top of chicken, then gently press, turning chicken to ensure a
good layer of crumbs on both sides. Transfer cutlet to prepared baking sheet
and repeat with remaining cutlets.

Fill a large skillet with 1/4 inch oil. Heat over high heat until shimmering
and just shy of smoking, about 375°F on an instant-read thermometer.

Working in batches and using tongs or your fingers, gently lower cutlets into
the pan, laying them down away from you to prevent hot fat from splashing
toward you. Fry, gently swirling pan and rotating cutlets for even browning,
and adjusting heat as necessary for a steady, vigorous bubble, until bottom
side is browned and crisp, about three minutes. Flip cutlets and fry until
other side is browned and crisp, about three minutes longer. Transfer to paper
towels to drain and season with salt right away. Repeat with remaining
cutlets, topping up oil if necessary.

Drain all but one tablespoon oil from skillet. Add wine and bring to a boil
over medium-high heat, cooking until raw alcohol smell has mostly cooked off,
about two minutes. Add capers and butter, whisking constantly, until butter
has melted. Lower heat to medium and continue whisking and reducing until a
creamy, emulsified sauce forms (the time this takes will depend on your burner
power and the size of your pan). If sauce over-reduces and breaks at any
point, add one tablespoon cold water and whisk to emulsify it again. Whisk in
lemon juice and parsley, season with salt and pepper, and remove from heat.

Arrange cutlets on a platter and drizzle warm butter sauce all over. Serve
right away.
