Confit Potato Latkes
https://www.greatbritishchefs.com/recipes/potato-latkes-toum-recipe

3 1/3 lb of Désirée potatoes
8 3/4 oz of unsalted butter
2 1/2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 pinch of thyme leaves
vegetable oil, for deep-frying
sea salt
freshly ground black pepper

TOUM
1 1/3 oz of garlic, roughly chopped
1/2 tsp Maldon salt
3/4 oz of lemon juice
1/2 egg white
3 1/2 oz of vegetable oil
Aleppo chilli flakes, for sprinkling

Place the butter, thyme and garlic in a saucepan over a medium heat. Once the
butter has completely melted, keep warm and leave to infuse while you prepare
the potatoes (but do not allow the butter to colour or burn)

Peel the potatoes and slice them as thinly as possible (use a mandoline if you
have one). Line a rectangular baking dish with baking paper. The size of the
tray is important, as you want the potatoes to fit snugly so they end up around
2 inches high once pressed. For this amount of potatoes, a dish that’s roughly
14x16cm (and about 2 litres in capacity) should do the trick

Place a layer of sliced potatoes in the baking dish, then season with salt and
pepper. Repeat this process until the baking dish is full of seasoned potato
slices, pushing them down slightly to ensure they are snug and tightly fitted
together. Once the dish is full, strain the butter and pour it over the
potatoes. Leave to stand for 10 minutes while you preheat an oven to
300 F/150 C

Cover the baking dish with foil and cook in the oven for 2 hours. Once cooked,
remove the foil and place a sheet of baking paper on top of the potatoes.
Place another slightly smaller baking dish on top, covered with lots of heavy
weights (tins work well). You want the entirety of the baking dish to be
weighted down equally, so a baking sheet or similar-sized baking dish that
fits snugly on top of the potatoes would work well. Transfer to the fridge and
chill thoroughly (ideally overnight)

When the potatoes are fully chilled, make the toum. Place the garlic, salt,
lemon juice and egg white in a blender and blitz on a high speed until white
and completely smooth (this should take about 5 minutes). With the motor still
running, gradually pour in the oil until you are left with a fully emulsified
sauce. Transfer to a squeezy bottle and reserve in the fridge until ready to
serve

Preheat a deep-fat fryer or deep pan of oil to 350 F/180 C. Carefully cut the
potatoes into equal portions, around 5cm in size – you should end up with
around 18-24 latkes, depending on the depth and size of your baking dish

Deep-fry the latkes for a few minutes until they crisp up and turn a deep
golden brown. It’s important to do this in batches so the temperature of the
oil doesn’t drop – you can keep the latkes warm in a low oven until they are
all cooked

Season and serve the latkes with the toum on the side, covered with a
sprinkling of Aleppo chilli
