Creamy Roasted-Broccoli Soup With Buttermilk and Spiced Pepitas 
Daniel Gritzer
https://www.seriouseats.com/roasted-broccoli-soup-buttermilk-pepitas-recipe

Active: 30 mins
Total: 60 mins
Serves: 5 to 7 servings
Makes: 10 cups

2 pounds broccoli, stalk trimmed and heads cut into florets
10 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1 large yellow onion, thinly sliced (about 1 1/2 cups)
4 medium cloves garlic, crushed (about 4 teaspoons)
1 teaspoon ground coriander seed, divided
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
1 1/2 quarts homemade or store-bought low-sodium chicken or vegetable stock
Kosher salt
1 cup pumpkin seeds
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon ground mustard seed
1/4 teaspoon turmeric
2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley
Zest of 1 lemon

Preheat oven to 375F. Toss broccoli with 2 tablespoons olive oil and spread in
an even layer on 2 rimmed baking sheets. Transfer to oven and roast until
broccoli is tender and browned, about 25 minutes.

In a Dutch oven, heat 2 tablespoons olive oil over medium-high heat until
shimmering. Add onion and garlic and cook, stirring, until softened, about 3
minutes. Stir in 1/2 teaspoon coriander seed and red pepper flakes and cook
until fragrant, about 1 minute.

Add roasted broccoli, buttermilk, and just enough stock to barely cover
vegetables. Bring to a simmer, then remove from heat. Working in batches if
necessary, transfer vegetables and liquid to a blender. Starting on the lowest
speed and gradually increasing to the highest speed, blend broccoli until a
smooth puree forms. Drizzle in 4 tablespoons total olive oil while blender is
running and return to a clean pot. Add as much of the remaining vegetable stock
as necessary to thin to a creamy soup consistency. Season with salt.

Meanwhile, lower oven to 350F. In a mixing bowl, toss pepitas with 2
tablespoons olive oil, remaining 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander, cumin, mustard
seed, and turmeric. Season with salt. Transfer to a parchment-lined baking
sheet and roast until fragrant, about 10 minutes. Let cool.

Scrape toasted spiced pepitas into a mixing bowl and stir in parsley, lemon
zest, and remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil.

Warm the soup, then spoon it into bowls. Top with spiced pepitas and some of
their oil. Serve right away.
