Creamed Greens Potpie
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020924-creamed-greens-potpie

Yield: 4 servings
Time: 1 hour

Ingredients

3 tablespoons unsalted butter
10 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly sliced
1 shallot, peeled and finely chopped
1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves (or 1 teaspoon dried thyme)
2-1/2 pounds mixed hearty greens (like kale, spinach, mustard greens or
      collard greens), stems removed and leaves torn into large pieces
Kosher salt and black pepper
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour, plus more for rolling
2 cups heavy cream
1 teaspoon hot sauce
1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan
1 sheet frozen puff pastry, thawed
1 egg, beaten

Heat the oven to 400 degrees and line a baking sheet with parchment or foil.

In a medium (10-inch) oven-proof skillet over medium heat, melt the butter.
Add the garlic, shallot and thyme and cook, stirring occasionally, until
softened but not browned, 5 to 6 minutes.

Add a handful of the greens and season lightly with salt and pepper. Using
tongs, toss the greens in the butter until wilted. Repeat, making sure to
season each batch, until all the greens are added and wilted. (They will
eventually all fit.)

Stir in the flour until it disappears into the greens, then add the cream and
hot sauce and stir well to combine. Bring to a simmer, then remove from heat
and stir in the Parmesan. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

On a lightly floured work surface or the bottom of another baking sheet, use
a lightly floured rolling pin, roll and trim the puff pastry into a 12-inch
circle. If you find the pastry contracts when you roll it, give it a few
minutes between each roll to relax a little.

Transfer the skillet to the lined baking sheet. Drape the puff pastry over the
skillet so that there is about 1/2-inch hang over on all sides. (Trim any
sides that have more than an inch.) Brush the beaten egg onto the puff pastry,
then cut four large slits into the pastry. Bake until the puff pastry is
puffed and golden brown, about 10 minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 375
degrees and bake until the pastry is cooked through and the filling is
bubbling, 30 to 35 minutes. (If the pastry is getting too dark, cover with
foil.) Let sit for a few minutes before diving in.
