Creamy Veggie-Stuffed Enchiladas with Spanish Quinoa
http://veggieandthebeastfeast.com/2013/03/20/creamy-veggie-stuffed-enchiladas-with-spanish-quinoa/

Serves 3-6

Enchiladas:
1/2 red onion, chopped
2 cups spinach, chopped
1 roma tomato, diced
1-2 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup greek yogurt (I used 2%)
1/2 cup ricotta cheese
1/2 cup crumbled feta (may replace with cotija if you have it available)
1/4 cup sharp white cheddar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1 cup vegetarian refried beans
3 whole-grain tortillas

20-Minute Enchilada Sauce:
3 tablespoons canola oil
1 tablespoon flour
1/4 cup chili powder
2 cups reduced-sodium vegetable broth
10 ounces tomato paste
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes

Spanish Quinoa
1 cup quinoa
2 cups vegetable broth
2 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 red onion, chopped
1 can diced tomatoes with no salt
1 bunch fresh cilantro, chopped
1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper

Preheat oven to 350.

In a medium-sized saucepan, heat the canola oil for the sauce. Whisk in the
flour and cook for a minute, then add the chili powder and cook for 30 seconds.
Pour in the broth, tomato paste, and all spices. Bring to a boil, and then
reduce to a simmer for 15 minutes. Taste and adjust the seasonings to your
liking.

Combine the onion, spinach, tomato, garlic, yogurt, cheese, salt and pepper in
a large bowl. Scoop 1/3 cup of refried beans onto a tortilla, spreading out
evenly, then top with 1/3 of the cheese/veggie filling (arrange it so the
filling makes a line through the middle of the tortilla), then roll up the
tortilla tightly. Repeat with the remaining two tortillas.

Pour 1/2 cup of enchilada sauce in an 8x8-inch pan, then add the enchiladas,
seam-side down, on top of the sauce. Pour the remaining sauce on top of the
enchiladas, spreading evenly over all three. Bake for 15-20 minutes, until
the sauce is bubbling.

While the enchiladas are baking, make the spanish quinoa. In a medium-sized
saucepan, saute the red onion in 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Add the quinoa
and stir frequently for 2-3 minutes until the quinoa is toasted. Pour in the
tomatoes, vegetable broth, cilantro, and red pepper flakes. Bring to a boil,
then reduce to a simmer for 15-20 minutes, until the liquid is absorbed.

When ready to eat, serve enchiladas with additional feta and cilantro, and
alongside a big scoop of spanish quinoa.
