Crispy Potato Latkes
http://myyearwithchris.wordpress.com/2013/04/06/crispy-potato-latkes/

2 pounds russet potatoes
1/2 cup grated onion
Salt and pepper
2 lightly beaten eggs
2 teaspoons minced fresh parsley
Vegetable oil

Scrub your potatoes and shred them, unpeeled, using the shredding disk of a
food processor. Chris Kimball recommends cutting the potatoes into 2" lengths.

Set an oven rack to the middle of your oven, and pre-heat a rimmed baking sheet
to 200-degrees.

Add shredded potatoes, onion, and 1 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Put half of
potatoes in center of clean cloth dish towel. Gather together towel ends and
twist to drain as much liquid as possible; allowing the liquid to drain into a
measuring cup. Empty dried potatoes into a second bowl, then dry the reminder
of the potatoes. Allow the reserved potato liquid to stand for 10 minutes, so
that starch and water separate.

Cover potatoes with plastic wrap and microwave for 1-1/2 minutes, stirring
mixture with fork every 30 seconds, until warm but not hot. Evenly empty potato
mixture over a second rimmed baking sheet. Allow to cool for 10 minutes. There
is no need to wash out the bowl.

Pour off the water from reserved potato liquid, leaving only the potato starch
in measuring cup. Add eggs and stir until smooth. Put cooled potatoes back in
bowl. Add minced parsley, 1/4 teaspoon pepper, and potato starch/egg mixture.
Toss until everything is evenly combined.

Place another wire rack over a third rimmed baking sheet. Line with a triple
layer of paper towels.

Add 1/4" of oil to a 12" skillet. Preheat over medium-high burner for 5 minutes
until reaches 350-degrees (oil will be shimmering but not smoking). Measure
1/4-cup of potato mixture and place in oil. Push down with spatula until in
becomes a disk 1/3"-thick. Repeat until 5 latkes are in pan. Cook for 3 minutes
per side, until they become golden brown. You may need to adjust the burner so
that the latkes bubble around the edges.  Remove to drain on paper towels, then
place on baking sheet.

You may need to add a little more oil to ensure you have 1/4" depth, reheat oil
to 350 degrees and repeat the previous step with the rest of the potatoes.
Season with salt and pepper according to your to taste, and serve with sour
cream.
