From-the-Pantry Pot Pie
Makes 4 servings

For the Stew:
1 small onion, minced
2 cloves of garlic, minced
1 large stalk of celery, minced
1 1/2 c cubed chicken-flavored seitan, crumbled vegan sausage, diced tofu,
           beans, or diced potatoes (I used 1 15oz package of firm tofu,
           cubed and baked first)*
1 lb frozen mixed vegetables (green beans, carrots, peas and corn)
10 oz package sliced mushrooms
1 c water, or more as needed
2 tbsp vegan chicken-flavored bouillon (I used 1 1/2 cups vegetable broth +
       1 cup water in place of the water and bouillon, for a total of 2 1/2
       cups liquid)
1 tsp dried thyme (I used herbs de provence)
Salt and pepper, to taste
2 tbsp flour, if needed (I used coconut flour, because it thickens
              nicely)

For the Biscuits:
1 c white, whole wheat, or gluten-free flour (I used 1/2 cup whole wheat
    pastry flour + 1/2 cup cornmeal) 
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp dried thyme (optional)
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
3 tbsp olive oil (I used just 2 tbsp)
1/2 c plain, unsweetened non-dairy milk (I used almond milk*)

The Night Before:
Place the cut-up onion, garlic, celery, and seitan (or tofu, sausage, or
potatoes) in a large air-tight container in the refrigerator.

In the Morning:
Oil the crock of your slow cooker (or spray lightly with nonstick cooking
spray.) Combine all of the stew ingredients except for the flour in the slow
cooker. Add 1-2 cups extra water if you plan to cook this for longer than 8
hours, or if your slow cooker runs hot (I used 2 1/2 cups of liquid total.)
Stir and cook on low for 6-8 hours.

About 30 minutes before serving, add more water if this mixture seems too
thick. Or, add flour if to thicken it up, if desired. (I spooned out some of
the liquid and mixed it in a small bowl with the coconut flour, then stirred
this back into the slow cooker.) Taste and adjust seasonings.

To make the biscuits, combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and work until
it comes together into a dough. Turn the mixture onto a floured cutting board,
roll about 1/2 inch thick, and cut into circles with the rim of a glass. Place
in the slow cooker on top of the filling. (My mixture did not come together
into a dough; it was more like a thick batter, so I simply spooned it on top
of the stew. Next time I would not add all of the milk at once, I would
instead start with just a little and add more as needed.) Turn up the slow
cooker to high. Prop the lid open with the handles of a wooden spoon, or place
a clean dishtowel under the lid to prevent condensation from dripping onto the
biscuits. Cook an additional 30 minutes.

*To bake tofu, preheat oven to 475 degrees F. Drain the tofu and cut into
cubes (there is no need to press the tofu, as some recipes call for.) Spray a
large baking dish with nonstick cooking spray, and place the tofu cubes in a
single layer in the dish.  Spray the tofu lightly with cooking spray. Bake for
25-30 minutes, turning 2-3 times, until lightly browned and crisp. The book
has many recipes which call for tofu without baking it first, so you can put
it in that way as well. I just assumed I'd like the firmer texture better. 
