Brownies
recipe from Martha Stewart's Baking Handbook

1/2 c. (1 stick) unsalted butter
8 oz. bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 1/2 c. sugar
4 large eggs
1 tsp. pure vanilla extract
3/4 c. all-purpose flour
1/2 tsp. salt (I use sea salt. If using, you don't need the full 1/2 tsp.)

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line an 8-inch square baking pan or heatproof
glass dishpan with parchment paper, leaving a 1-inch overhang on 2 sides. (I
use 2 sheets of parchment paper, setting them perpendicular to one another in
the pan. This makes for nice corners on the brownies.) Set aside.
2. Place butter and chocolate in a large heatproof bowl set over, but not
touching, simmering water. (I use this double boiler. It also serves as my one
mixing bowl for this recipe. Totally worth the investment, especially after
you start making these all the time.) Stir frequently until chocolate and
butter are melted, about 7 minutes. Remove bowl from heat; let cool to room
temperature, 10 to 15 minutes.
3. Stir sugar into cooled chocolate mixture until combined. Whisk in eggs one
at a time, whisking until smooth after each addition. Whisk in vanilla. (I use
a spatula. Works better than a whisk with batter this thick, in my opinion.)
Gently fold in flour and sea salt.
4. Pour batter into prepared pan, and smooth top with an offset spatula. Bake
until cake tester inserted in the center comes out with only a few moist
crumbs attached, 40 to 45 minutes. (These will be fudge-y!)
5. Using parchment, lift brownies out of pan and onto a wire rack to cool
completely.

TIPS
* Let the brownies cool for well over an hour—I'd recommend 3 hours. They are
really hard to cut right out of the oven because they are so gooey. Be
patient. You will be rewarded.  
* You may have to rinse your knife clean midway through cutting. This will
make cutting the other half easier. The yummy brownie goo on the knife can
make cutting difficult.
* Looking for more chocolate? Add 1/4 c. semi-sweet or dark chocolate chips
into batter. Don't melt. 
* I typically use Ghirardelli chocolate. Use the best you can find or afford. 
* Wondering why they are so gooey? There is no leavener in this recipe,
i.e. baking powder or baking soda. That's the difference between a cake-y
brownie and a fudge-y brownie.  
