Obscenely Chocolatey Chocolate Cookies
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/double-dark-chocolate-cookies

2 large eggs
5 2-oz. bittersweet chocolate bars (preferably 65%–75% cacao)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1-2/3 cups (235 g) all-purpose flour
1 tsp. (5 g) baking soda
1/3 cup (38 g) Dutch-processed cocoa powder
3/4 cup (170 g; packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (50 g) granulated sugar
1-1/2 tsp. (6 g) kosher salt
1 Tbsp. (22 g) vanilla paste or extract

Your 2 large eggs need to be at room temperature for this recipe. If they
aren’t, put them in a small bowl and cover them with hot tap water. This’ll
bring them up to speed quickly.

Coarsely chop four 2-oz. chocolate bars. You want them to be bigger than
normal chocolate chips (aim for 3–4 times the size)—this creates the chocolate
puddles. Set aside. Chop remaining 2-oz. chocolate bar into 20-ish pieces
(you’re going to place one or two pieces atop each cookie).

Cut 2 sticks unsalted butter into large pieces. Cook in a medium saucepan over
medium-low heat, stirring often, until it foams, then browns, 7–9 minutes.
(Watch carefully since browned butter goes from brown to black in the blink of
an eye.) Immediately scrape into a large bowl and let cool slightly, about 5
minutes.

While butter cools, whisk 1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour and 1 tsp. baking soda in
a medium bowl to combine. Press 1/3 cup cocoa powder through a fine-mesh sieve
into bowl (this eliminates those pesky lumps), then whisk again to combine.

Add 3/4 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup granulated sugar, and 1-1/2 tsp. kosher salt to
browned butter. Using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula, stir vigorously to
combine. Add 1 large egg and whisk vigorously until incorporated, about 1
minute. Repeat with remaining 1 large egg, then whisk in 1 Tbsp. vanilla paste.

Switch back to your spatula or spoon to stir in dry ingredients just to
combine. Mix in the 4 chopped chocolate bars you set aside. Let dough sit at
room temperature at least 1 hour to let flour and cocoa hydrate. The dough
will thicken as it sits.

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 375°. Line 2 baking sheets with
parchment paper. Shape dough into ping-pong sized balls (about 3 Tbsp.).
Arrange on prepared baking sheets, spacing about 3" apart. Lightly press a
chunk or two of remaining chocolate on top of each dough ball.

Bake cookies, rotating pans top to bottom and front to back halfway through,
until edges are just set but centers are still soft, 8–10 minutes. Remove from
oven and carefully tap pan on stovetop to deflate and flatten cookies. Let
cool on baking sheets 10 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack and let cool
completely.

Transfer cookies to a platter. Serve and enjoy!

Do Ahead: Dough can be made 3 days ahead; cover and chill. Let dough come to
room temperature before baking.
