Easy Teriyaki-Glazed Salmon, Cucumber, and Avocado Rice Bowls
https://www.seriouseats.com/easy-teriyaki-glazed-salmon-cucumber-avocado-rice-bowl-recipe
Total: 15 mins
Serves 4

4 salmon fillets, about 5 ounces (140 g) each
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon (15ml) vegetable or canola oil
4 cups cooked white or brown rice (about 680 g cooked rice)
1 avocado, diced
1 Persian or Japanese cucumber, diced
6 to 8 scallions, thinly sliced
1/2 cup (120 ml) homemade or store-bought teriyaki sauce (see below)
Furikake and/or toasted sesame seeds, for serving (see notes)

Press salmon fillets between paper towels to dry surfaces thoroughly. Season
on all sides with salt and pepper. Heat oil in a large stainless steel skillet
over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add salmon fillets, skin side down.
Immediately reduce heat to medium-low. Cook, pressing gently on back of fillets
to ensure good contact between the skin and the pan, until skin is rendered and
crisp, about 6 minutes. If skin shows resistance when you attempt to lift with
a spatula, allow it to continue to cook until it lifts easily.

Flip salmon and cook on second side until a thermometer inserted into the
thickest part registers 120F (49C) for medium-rare or 130F (54C) for medium,
about 1 minute longer. Transfer salmon to a paper towel–lined plate to drain.

Divide rice evenly between 4 serving bowls. Top with diced avocado, cucumber,
and scallions. Top each with a salmon fillet and spoon sauce on top, using the
back of a spoon to evenly glaze each fillet. Sprinkle with furikake and/or
sesame seeds. Serve immediately.


Basic Teriyaki Sauce Recipe
Total: 20 mins
Makes 1 cup

1 cup Japanese shoyu (soy sauce)
1/2 cup dark brown sugar
1 cup mirin (or substitute 1 cup sake plus 1 1/2 Tbsp sugar)
1/2 cup sake

Mix soy sauce, sugar, mirin, and sake together in a small saucepan. Bring
mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, reduce to a simmer, and cook until
thickened enough to coat a spoon, about 20 minutes. Remove from heat, let
cool, and use immediately or store in an airtight container in the
refrigerator.
