Easy Pasta Primavera With Sauteed Vegetables
https://vegetariangastronomy.com/wprm_print/easy-pasta-primavera-with-sauteed-vegetables#
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 20 minutes
Servings: 3 servings

5 oz penne pasta
0.5 tbsp vegan butter, or additional olive oil
olive oil
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
5-7.5 leaves fresh basil, chopped
0.5 tbsp fresh lemon juice
0.33 cup vegan parmesan cheese, optional
pine nuts, optional
salt
freshly ground black pepper

Vegetables:
2 large vine-ripe tomatoes, diced
1.5 cloves garlic, minced
1/2 small onion, diced
1/2 yellow squash, diced
4 spheres asparagus, stems removed and cut into 4ths
1/2 small bunch broccoli, cut into small florets
1.5 bell peppers, diced (varying assortment of red, green, yellow, or orange)

In a large pot, boil some water with some salt and olive oil. Cook the pasta
al dente. Once done, drain the pasta, rinse with cold water to stop additional
cooking, and toss with a little olive oil to avoid sticky pasta.

In a large non-stick pan, add 1/2 tbsp olive oil and 1/2 tbsp vegan butter and
heat on medium-high heat.

Add the garlic and fry for a few seconds until fragrant.

Add all the other chopped and diced vegetables except for the tomatoes. Make
sure there is enough oil and/or butter to coat all the vegetables. If needed,
add more olive oil.

Sprinkle some salt and pepper, stir frequently and pan grill the vegetables on
medium-high heat until all the water has evaporated and the veggies are
slightly grilled. Once done, they will be cooked, yet slightly firm (do not
overcook the vegetables otherwise they will be soft and mushy).

Once the vegetables are done, turn the heat down to medum. Add the tomatoes
and cook for a few more minutes, stirring freqently.

Add the cooked pasta to the veggies.  Stir in the balsamic vinegar, lemon
juice, basil, and season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Toss the pasta with vegan parmesan cheese and some pine nuts (if using).

Serve hot with a side of garlic bread!
