Extra-Smooth Pumpkin Pie
Serves 8
http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2012/11/print/extra-smooth-pumpkin-pie-recipe.html

6 ounces granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
8 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1 (15-ounce) can pumpkin puree, or 15 ounces homemade pumpkin puree
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
3 large eggs

Adjust oven rack to lower middle position. Place a heavy duty rimmed baking
sheet on the rack and preheat oven to 425 F. 

Reduce heat to 350 F. In the bowl of a food processor, combine sugar, salt,
cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg, and pulse 3 times to mix. Add the cream cheese
and pulse until a homogeneous paste forms. Add the pumpkin and butter and
process for 30 seconds. Stop to scrape down the sides of the bowl, then
process until the mixture is completely smooth, about 30 seconds longer. Add
the eggs and process until completely smooth, scraping down sides as necessary.
For extra-smooth pie, press the mixture through a fine mesh strainer or a
chinois using the back of a ladle.

Pour the mixture into previously baked pie shell and smooth over the top with a
rubber spatula. Rap the shell firmly against the counter a few times in order
to release any air bubbles. Transfer to the baking sheet in the oven and bake
until the filling puffs slightly and the center only moves slightly when
jiggled, 30 to 35 minutes, rotating the pie half way through baking. Allow the
pie to cool for at least one hour before serving. It may be chilled for up to
two days.


Gingersnap Pie Crust
http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/pumpkin-pie-recipe.html

6 ounces gingersnap cookies
1 tablespoon dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 ounce unsalted butter, melted

Heat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Combine the gingersnaps, brown sugar, and ginger in the bowl of a food
processor. Process until the cookies are fine crumbs. Drizzle the butter into
the crumb mixture. Pulse 8 to 10 times to combine.

Press the gingersnap mixture into the bottom, up the sides, and just over the
lip of a 9-inch glass pie dish. Place on a half sheet pan and bake the crust
for 10 to 12 minutes. Cool crust at least 10 minutes before filling.
