Extra-Crispy Parmesan-Crusted Roasted Potatoes
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020633-extra-crispy-parmesan-crusted-roasted-potatoes

Yield: 4 to 6 servings
Time: About 1 hour

3 pounds russet potatoes, peeled and cut into 1 1/2- to 2-inch chunks
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons kosher salt, or 1 tablespoon table salt
4 dried bay leaves, preferably Turkish
1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns
6 whole garlic cloves, peeled and lightly crushed
3 to 4 thyme or rosemary sprigs, or a mix
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 ounces finely grated Parmesan (about 1 cup)
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Adjust oven rack to center position and heat to 425 degrees, or 400 degrees if
using convection. (Convection is recommended, if available.) Combine potato
chunks, 2 quarts water, baking soda and salt in a large saucepan.

Cut a 10-by-10-inch square out of cheesecloth and place bay leaves,
peppercorns, garlic cloves and herb sprigs in the center. Gather up the
corners of the cloth into a pouch, and tie off with butcher's twine. Add
bundle to the pot with potatoes, and set over high heat. Bring to a boil, and
cook until you can poke a knife into a larger chunk of potato without any
resistance, about 10 minutes after the water comes to a boil.

Drain potatoes in a colander and discard aromatic bundle. Line a 13-by-18-inch
rimmed aluminum baking sheet with parchment paper.

Transfer potatoes to a large bowl. Add melted butter and Parmesan. Season
lightly with salt and pepper. Toss and fold with a rubber spatula until
Parmesan, butter and starch form a slurry over the surface of the potatoes,
about 30 seconds. Transfer potatoes to the prepared baking sheet and spread
out so they are mostly separated from one another. (At this point, they can be
allowed to cool, then transferred to a sealed container and stored in the
refrigerator until ready to roast.)

Transfer baking sheet to oven and roast potatoes until pale golden brown and
sizzling on the bottom, about 20 minutes. Flip potatoes using a thin metal
spatula and continue roasting until crisp and blond-gold on most sides, about
15 to 20 minutes longer. (Check frequently toward the end, and don't allow the
potatoes to cook beyond a deep gold, or they will turn bitter.)

Remove potatoes from oven and allow to cool for 5 minutes on the pan before
transferring to a serving platter.
