Farmhouse Herbed Stuffing
http://www.epicurious.com/recipes/food/views/Farmhouse-Herbed-Stuffing-240446
Epicurious | November 2007

Makes 8 servings, about 9 cups, or enough to fill a 12-pound turkey,
with extra for baking alongside ingredients

8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter
2 medium onions, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 3 cups)
6 stalks celery with leaves, cut into 1/4-inch dice (about 2 1/2 cups)
1 (14-ounce) package seasoned bread stuffing cubes
1/3 cup fresh parsley, chopped
1 teaspoon celery salt
1 teaspoon dried sage, crumbled
1 teaspoon dried rosemary, crushed
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme, crumbled
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 1/4 cups hot Homemade Turkey Stock or canned turkey stock, plus 1/2 cup more
 if baking all of stuffing outside of turkey preparation

In 12-inch, heavy skillet over moderate heat, heat butter until hot but not
smoking. Stir in onion and celery, cover, and cook, stirring occasionally,
until soft, 15 to 20 minutes. (Vegetables can be prepared up to 1 day ahead
and refrigerated. Reheat before continuing: In 12-inch, heavy skillet over
moderately high heat, saute, stirring often, until heated through, about 5
minutes.)

Transfer to large bowl and add stuffing cubes, parsley, celery salt, sage,
rosemary, thyme, salt, and pepper. Stir in 1 1/4 cups hot stock.

If using to stuff turkey: Use immediately to fill cavities and spread
remainder in baking dish as directed in recipe .

If baking entire recipe as side dish: Preheat oven to 350F and butter 3-quart
casserole or 9- by 13-inch baking dish. Transfer stuffing to dish and drizzle
with 1/2 cup hot stock. Cover with aluminum foil and bake until heated through,
about 30 minutes. Uncover and bake until top is slightly crisp and golden,
about 10 minutes longer. Serve immediately.

Variations:
Sausage and Sage Stuffing: In large, heavy skillet over moderate heat, saute 1
pound bulk pork sausage, breaking up pieces with spoon, until meat shows no
sign of pink, about 10 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer to large bowl.
Proceed with recipe, adding ingredients to bowl with sausage and substituting
2 tablespoons chopped fresh sage for dried rosemary and sage.

Test-Kitchen Tips: Warm, moist stuffing is an optimal environment for bacteria
such as salmonella or E. coli to multiply, so it's important to follow safe
procedures. Be sure to make the stuffing at the last minute so it can go into
the bird warm. This helps it move above the "danger zone" (the optimal
temperature range for bacteria growth) more quickly during roasting. Stuffing
baked outside of the turkey can be spread in the baking dish and refrigerated
for a few hours while the turkey roasts, but it should be made on the same day
as baking.
Stuffing baked outside of the turkey won't be soaked in the turkey's juices,
so extra stock is drizzled on top to keep it moist.
