Lighter Fettuccine Alfredo
https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2014/09/lighter-fettuccine-alfredo-recipe.html
J. Kenji Lopez-Alt

Serves: 4
Active time: 20 minutes
Total time:30 minutes

5 ounces (140g) grated Parmigiano Reggiano cheese, plus more for sprinkling
2 tablespoons (30ml) heavy cream
1 large egg
1 teaspoon (3g) cornstarch
2 tablespoons (30ml) extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest (optional)
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 pound (450g) fresh fettuccine, or 12 ounces (340g) dried fettuccine
1 teaspoon minced garlic (about 1 medium clove)
2 tablespoons (30g) unsalted butter
Minced fresh parsley or chives

Combine cheese, heavy cream, egg, cornstarch, olive oil, and lemon zest (if
using) in a large bowl. Season lightly with salt and heavily with black pepper
and whisk to combine. Set aside.

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil over high heat. Add pasta and
cook, stirring frequently to prevent sticking, until cooked but still very
firm (not quite al dente), about 45 seconds for fresh pasta or 1 minute less
than package directions indicate for dried pasta. Drain pasta into a colander
set over a large bowl. Transfer 2 cups (480ml) of cooking water to a liquid
measuring cup and discard the rest. Transfer pasta to the now-empty bowl. Add
garlic and butter and toss to coat.

Whisking constantly, slowly add 1 1/2 cups of pasta cooking water to bowl with
cheese mixture. Transfer cheese mixture to the now-empty pasta cooking pot,
scraping the bottom to make sure you get everything. Cook over medium-high
heat, stirring constantly with a rubber spatula, until mixture comes to a boil
and thickens, about 45 seconds. Season sauce to taste with more salt and
pepper as desired. Transfer pasta to sauce mixture and turn to coat. Just
before serving, stir in more pasta water to thin sauce out as necessary. Serve
immediately, sprinkled with minced herbs, black pepper, and cheese, and
drizzled with additional olive oil
