Flourless Monster Cookies

Author: Sally McKenney
Prep Time: 40 minutes
Cook Time: 14 minutes
Yield: 18–20 cookies
 
1 and 1/2 cups (128g) old-fashioned whole rolled oats
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 Tablespoons (43g) unsalted butter, melted
2/3 cup (133g) packed light or dark brown sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup (250g) creamy peanut butter (see note)
1/2 cup (105g) regular-size M&M’s, or 1/3 cup (77g) mini M&M’s
1/3 cup (60g) semi-sweet chocolate chips

In a medium bowl, whisk the oats, baking soda, and salt together until combined. Set aside.
In a large bowl, whisk the melted butter, brown sugar, eggs, and vanilla together until combined. Whisk in the peanut butter.
Pour the dry ingredients into the bowl with the wet ingredients and mix with a silicone spatula until combined. (Takes some arm muscle!) Fold in the M&Ms and chocolate chips. The dough will be sticky and gooey.
Cover the cookie dough tightly and chill in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes and up to 3 days. 
Preheat oven to 350°F (177°C). Line large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
Scoop the dough, a heaping 2 Tablespoons (45g) each, and place the mounds of cookie dough about 3 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets. (A medium cookie scoop helps with the sticky dough, but make sure it is a heaping scoop to get you 2 Tablespoons (45g) of dough.)
Bake until the edges are set and golden brown, about 12–15 minutes. The cookies will still look soft in the centers.
Cool cookies for 10 minutes on the baking sheet. During this time, I like to press a few more chocolate chips or M&M’s into the tops of the warm cookies. (This is optional and only for looks.) Transfer to wire rack to cool completely.
Cover leftover cookies tightly and store at room temperature for up to 1 week.
Notes

Make Ahead & Freezing Instructions: You can make this dough ahead of time and keep it in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Baked cookies freeze well for up to 3 months. Unbaked cookie dough balls freeze well for up to 3 months. Bake frozen cookie dough balls for an extra minute, no need to thaw. Read my tips and tricks on how to freeze cookie dough.
Special Tools (affiliate links): Glass Mixing Bowls | Whisk | Silicone Spatula | Cookie Scoop | Baking Sheets | Silicone Baking Mat or Parchment Paper Sheets | Cooling Rack
Oats: Oats are naturally gluten free, but if you have dietary restrictions, be sure they are labeled “certified gluten free” because oats can be packaged in a facility with gluten.
Can I Use Quick Oats? You can certainly try it. The cookies will not spread as much, and you’ll lose some of the chewy texture.
Peanut Butter: I strongly recommend using processed creamy peanut butter for these cookies, such as Jif or Skippy. Using natural peanut butter will make for a drier, more crumbly cookie.
Nut-Free: We tested these cookies with sunflower seed butter in place of the peanut butter, and the recipe works; but keep in mind that when sunflower seed butter and baking soda combine, there’s a natural reaction that causes the inside of the cookies to turn green! It’s harmless and doesn’t change the taste or texture.