Fluffy Cheddar Biscuits
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020539-fluffy-cheddar-biscuits

3 cups/385 grams all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder
3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/4 teaspoon sweet or hot paprika
1/2 cup/115 grams cold unsalted butter (1 stick), cut into 1/2-inch cubes, plus 6 tablespoons/85 grams melted unsalted butter
8 ounces/225 grams sharp or extra-sharp Cheddar, shredded (about 2 packed cups)
1 cup/240 milliliters buttermilk
1 large egg

Arrange the oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and heat the
oven to 375 degrees. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.

In a medium bowl, stir the flour, sugar, baking powder, garlic powder, salt
and paprika to combine. Add the 1/2 cup cubed butter and toss until each
piece is coated completely in flour mixture. Use a pastry cutter or your hands
to rub the butter into the flour, continuing to work the mixture until the
butter is almost fully blended into the dough. There can still be a few
larger pieces of butter, but none should be larger than a pea. If the butter
feels soft or melty at any point, refrigerate the mixture in the bowl for 15
minutes before continuing.

Stir in 1 1/2 cups/170 grams of the cheese into the flour mixture. Make a well
in the center of the bowl. In a liquid measuring cup or in a small bowl with a
spout, whisk the buttermilk and egg until well combined. Pour the mixture into
the medium bowl and, using a wooden spoon, stir until the mixture is combined.
Near the end, you may have to fold it over itself a few times in the bowl to
make sure it’s uniformly combined. (Resist the urge to use your hands so that
the mixture doesn’t get too soft or compressed.)

Scoop the dough into 12 even portions (about 1/2 cup/80 grams each) onto the
prepared sheet pan. Stagger the biscuits on the baking sheets. (You should
have 6 biscuits per sheet pan.)

Brush each biscuit with the melted butter (you won’t use it all) and divide
the remaining shredded cheese among the tops of the biscuits (about 2
teaspoons per biscuit).

Transfer to the oven and bake the biscuits for 15 minutes, then brush each
biscuit with butter again, and rotate the pans between the oven racks.
Continue to bake until the biscuits are light golden and the cheese on top is
deeply golden, 5 to 10 minutes more. The biscuits should spring back gently
when touched in the center.

Brush the finished biscuits generously with the remaining butter. Cool at
least 10 minutes before serving warm (or cool completely and serve at room
temperature).
