Frittatas (Stovetop or Baked)
https://cookieandkate.com/best-frittata-recipe/
Prep Time: 20 minutes
Cook Time: 25 minutes
Yield: 8 servings

12 eggs
3 tablespoons full-fat dairy (heavy cream, half-and-half, whole milk, sour cream, crème fraîche or yogurt)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (4 ounces) grated or crumbled cheese
3 to 5 cups chopped vegetables or greens of choice (or up to 3 cups leftover
    cooked vegetables or greens)
1 tablespoon olive oil
Garnish: Chopped or torn fresh, leafy herbs (basil, parsley, cilantro, or dill)

Preheat the oven to 425F for the traditional stovetop method, or 350 degrees
for the baked methods (casserole or mini/muffins).

Crack the eggs into a medium mixing bowl. Add your dairy of choice and the
salt. Whisk just until the egg yolks and whites are blended. Whisk in all or
half of the cheese (you can reserve the other half for topping the frittata
before baking, if desired). Set the mixture aside.

In a 12-inch cast iron skillet (or any other large skillet that’s oven safe),
warm the olive oil over medium heat until shimmering. Add the vegetables,
starting with chopped onions or other dense vegetables. Cook for a few
minutes, stirring occasionally, then add any softer vegetables such as
zucchini. Cook until those vegetables are tender, then add any garlic or
greens, and cook until fragrant or wilted. Season with salt, to taste.

Traditional stovetop option: Whisk the eggs once more and pour the mixture
over the vegetables. Stir with a spatula briefly to combine and distribute
the mixture evenly across the pan. If you reserved any cheese, sprinkle it on
top of the frittata now.

Once the outside edge of the frittata turns lighter in color (about 30 seconds
to 1 minute), carefully transfer the frittata to the oven. Bake for 7 to 14
minutes (keep an eye on it), until the eggs are puffed and appear cooked, and
the center of the frittata jiggles just a bit when you give it a gentle shimmy.
Remove the frittata from the oven and place it on a cooling rack to cool.
Garnish with herbs, slice with a sharp knife, and serve.

Baked casserole option: Let the cooked vegetables cool for a few minutes. In
the meantime, grease a 9 by 13-inch pan with butter, which works better than
cooking spray. Stir the lightly cooled veggies into the egg mixture, then pour
it all into the pan. If you reserved any cheese, sprinkle it on top of the
frittata now.

Bake for 20 to 25 minutes (keep an eye on it), until the eggs are puffed and
appear cooked, and the center of the frittata jiggles just a bit when you give
it a gentle shimmy. Remove the frittata from the oven and place it on a
cooling rack to cool. Garnish with herbs, slice with a sharp knife, and serve.

Baked mini frittata option: Let the cooked vegetables cool for a few minutes,
then stir them into the egg mixture. Grease 18 muffin cups (I used two muffin
pans for this), then fill the cups evenly with a scant ⅓ cup of the mixture.
If you reserved any cheese, sprinkle it on top of the frittatas now.

Bake for 13 to 17 minutes, until the eggs are puffed and appear cooked, and
the center of the frittatas jiggle just a bit when you give the pan a gentle
shimmy (this happens quickly so keep an eye on them; my pan with only 6
muffins finished sooner). Remove the pans from the oven and place them on a
cooling rack to cool. Garnish with herbs, and serve.

NOTES
Recipe created with guidance from Bon Appetit, Epicurious and America’s
Test Kitchen.

STORAGE SUGGESTIONS: Frittata leftovers keep well for a few days in the
refrigerator. You can serve leftover frittata chilled, let it come to room
temperature on its own, or gently warm individual slices in the microwave or
oven.

CAN I FREEZE IT? I don’t recommend freezing leftover frittata. When I
defrosted my frozen slices, they turned very watery and slightly rubbery. If
you’re looking for a good egg-based freezer recipe, check out my breakfast
burritos.

PREPARE IN ADVANCE:  The baked method is best for make-ahead frittatas. You
can whisk the eggs, cooked vegetables and cheese together in advance. Cover
and refrigerate the mixture until you’re ready to bake (it should keep well
for up to two days). Grease a casserole dish or muffin tin and bake as
directed above.
