Garlic Bread Shrimp
https://www.homechef.com/meals/garlic-bread-shrimp

1.5 oz grated parmesan
2 garlic cloves
5 oz penne
1 roma tomato
2 oz baby spinach
1/2 oz seasoned croutons
8 oz shrimp
3 oz white cooking wine
4 oz light cream
3 Tbsp corn starch
olive oil
salt & pepper

Bring a medium pot of water to a boil.  Thoroughly rinse produce and pat dry

Once water is boiling, add pasta and cook until al dente, 10-12 minutes.
Reserve 1/2 cup pasta water. Drain pasta in a colander and set aside. Wipe pot
clean and reserve. While pasta cooks, prepare ingredients.

Core tomato and cut into 1/4" dice. Mince garlic. Coarsely chop spinach. Keep
croutons in bag and coarsely crush. Pat shrimp dry. In a mixing bowl, combine
1 Tbsp. Parmesan (reserve remaining for sauce) and half the garlic (reserve
remaining for spinach). Set aside.

Line a plate with a paper towel. Return pot used to cook pasta to medium heat
and add 2 tsp. olive oil. Add spinach, tomato, remaining garlic, and 1/4 tsp.
salt to hot pan. Stir occasionally until spinach is wilted and garlic is
aromatic, 1-2 minutes. Transfer to towel-lined plate. Reserve pot, no need to
wipe clean.

Return pot used to cook spinach to medium-high heat. Add white wine and stir
occasionally until mostly evaporated, 1-2 minutes. Add cream and reserved
pasta water. Stir occasionally until thick enough to coat back of a spoon,
4-6 minutes. Stir in remaining Parmesan and 1/4 tsp. salt. Remove from burner
and toss pasta and spinach-tomato mixture in sauce to coat. If sauce is too
thick, add warm water 1 Tbsp. at a time until desired consistency is reached.

In another mixing bowl, toss shrimp and cornstarch to combine. Place a medium
non-stick pan over medium-high heat and add 2 tsp. olive oil. Add shrimp to
hot pan and flip occasionally until golden brown and shrimp reaches a minimum
internal temperature of 145 degrees, 2-3 minutes. Add Parmesan-garlic mixture
and toss to coat thoroughly. Stir until cheese is golden, 1 minute. Remove
from burner. Garnish with crushed croutons.
