Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip Cookies
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018945-giant-crinkled-chocolate-chip-cookies

Yield: 10 cookies
Time: 30 minutes, plus chilling

2 cups/256 grams all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 pound/227 grams unsalted butter (2 sticks), room temperature
1-1/2 cups/302 grams granulated sugar
1/4 cup/55 grams packed light or dark brown sugar
1 egg
1-1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
6 ounces/170 grams bittersweet chocolate (about 60 percent cacao solids),
           chopped into coarse pieces, bits and shards

Adjust an oven rack to the middle position. Line 2 baking sheets with
aluminum foil, parchment paper or nonstick baking mats.

In a small bowl, whisk the flour, baking soda and salt.

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle, beat the butter on medium
until creamy. Add the granulated and brown sugars and beat on medium until
light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg, vanilla and 2 tablespoons
water, and mix on low to combine. Add the flour mixture, and mix on low until
combined. Add the chocolate and mix on low into the batter. (At this point,
the dough can be refrigerated for several hours or overnight.)

Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Form the dough into 3 1/2-ounce (100-gram)
balls (a heaping 1/3 cup each). Place 4 balls an equal distance apart on a
prepared pan, and transfer to the freezer for 15 minutes before baking. After
you put the first baking sheet in the oven, put the second one in the freezer.

Place the chilled baking sheet in the oven and bake 10 minutes, until the
cookies are puffed slightly in the center. Lift the baking sheet and let it
drop down against the oven rack, so the edges of the cookies set and the
inside falls back down. (This will feel wrong, but trust me.) Bang it down,
if necessary, to make the center fall.

After the cookies puff up again, 2 to 3 minutes later, repeat lifting and
dropping the pan. Repeat a few more times, every 3 minutes, to create ridges
around the edge of the cookie. Bake 16 to 18 minutes total, until the cookies
have spread out, and the edges are golden brown, but the centers are much
lighter and not fully cooked.

Transfer the baking sheet to a wire rack; let cool before removing the
cookies from the pan.

Repeat with remaining cookies, using the first sheet pan for the third
batch of cookies.
