Serious Eats' Halal Cart-Style Chicken and Rice With White Sauce
https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2011/12/print/serious-eats-halal-cart-style-chicken-and-rice-white-sauce-recipe.html
Serves 4 to 6
Active time: 45 minutes
Total time:1 hour 

Chicken:
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon chopped fresh oregano
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander seed
3 garlic cloves, roughly chopped (about 1 1/2 tablespoons)
1/4 cup light olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs (6 to 8 thighs),
  trimmed of excess fat
1 tablespoon vegetable or canola oil

Rice:
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
1 1/2 cups long-grain or Basmati rice
2 1/2 cups chicken broth
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

Sauce:
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/2 cup Greek yogurt
1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons white vinegar
1 teaspoon lemon juice
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper

When serving:
1 head iceberg lettuce, shredded
1 large tomato, cut into wedges
Fluffy pocketless pita bread, brushed in butter, lightly toasted, and
    cut into 1 × 3-inch strips
Harissa-style hot sauce, for serving

For the chicken: Combine the lemon juice, oregano, coriander, garlic, and
olive oil in a blender. Blend until smooth. Season the marinade to taste with
kosher salt and black pepper. Place half of the marinade and the chicken in a
1-gallon zipper-lock bag, reserving the remaining marinade in the refrigerator.
Turn the chicken to coat, seal the bag, and marinate the chicken in the
refrigerator for at least 1 hour and up to 4 hours, turning occasionally to
redistribute the marinade (see Note).

Remove the chicken from the bag and pat it dry with paper towels. Season with
kosher salt and pepper, going heavy on the pepper. Heat the oil in a 12-inch
heavy-bottomed cast iron or stainless-steel skillet over medium-high heat
until it is lightly smoking. Add the chicken pieces and cook without
disturbing until they are lightly browned on the first side, about 4 minutes.
Using tongs, flip the chicken. Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the
chicken is cooked through and the center of each thigh registers 165°F. on an
instant-read thermometer, about 6 minutes longer. Transfer the chicken to a
cutting board and allow to cool for 5 minutes.

Using a chef’s knife, roughly chop the chicken into 1/2- to 1/4-inch chunks.
Transfer to a medium bowl, add the remaining marinade, cover loosely with
plastic, and refrigerate while you cook the rice and prepare the sauce.

For the rice: Melt the butter over medium heat in a large Dutch oven. Add the
turmeric and cumin and cook until fragrant but not browned, about 1 minute.
Add the rice and stir to coat. Cook, stirring frequently, until the rice is
lightly toasted, about 4 minutes. Add the chicken broth. Season to taste with
salt and pepper. Raise the heat to high and bring to a boil. Cover, reduce to
a simmer, and cook for 15 minutes without disturbing. Remove from the heat and
allow to rest until the water is completely absorbed and the rice is tender,
about 15 minutes.

For the sauce: In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, yogurt, sugar,
vinegar, lemon juice, parsley, and 2 teaspoons black pepper. Whisk to combine.
Season to taste with salt.

To serve: Return the entire contents of the chicken bowl (chicken, marinade,
and all juices) to the skillet. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring
occasionally, until heated through. To serve, divide the rice, lettuce,
tomato, and toasted pita bread evenly among four to six plates. Pile the
chicken on top of the rice. Top with the white sauce and hot sauce. Serve
immediately, passing extra sauce at the table.

Note: Do not marinate the chicken longer than 4 hours or it’ll get a mushy
texture. If you must delay cooking the chicken for any reason, remove it from
the marinade, pat it dry with paper towels, and refrigerate until ready to
cook.
