Easy Herbed Grilled Salmon Recipe

You can use this method on pretty much any type of thick fish filet if salmon
is not available. The herbs, wine, and lime give salmon a fabulous flavor,
while the foil tray makes clean-up easy and keeps your grill clean. If you
cannot grill, bake it in a very hot oven.

Vegetable oil spray
1-1/2 pounds boneless salmon filet about 1-inch thick (large end preferred)
1/2 lime
2 tablespoons white wine
1 teaspoon mayonnaise (may substitute butter)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (optional)
1/2 teaspoon onion powder
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon lemon pepper
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
1/2 teaspoon dried basil
1/2 teaspoon dried dill weed
1/4 teaspoon Hungarian sweet paprika

Preheat grill to high heat. Make a tray out of a doubled-length of heavy-duty
foil large enough for the salmon filet, by folding a long piece in half and
folding up all four sides, with the dull side up.

(The shiny side reflects, so you want it down so as not to burn the food.)
Spray the entire inside of the foil tray liberally with cooking spray. Place
the foil tray on a platter or metal tray to transport to the grill. 

Place the salmon filet in the foil tray skin-side down (or boned-side up if it
is skinned). Squeeze lime juice over salmon and sprinkle with white wine.
Spread top of salmon with the mayonnaise. 

In a small bowl, mix together kosher salt, onion powder, garlic powder,
lemon pepper, oregano, basil, and dill weed. Sprinkle the mixture evenly over
the top of the salmon, then top with the sweet paprika. 

Place baking pan with foil tray on hot grill. Transfer the foil tray to the
hot grill. Cook in a hot covered grill for 10 minutes per inch of thickness of
the fish filet. Do not overcook or it will be dry and unpalatable. Turning is
not necessary. Salmon is done when it turns a light pink color throughout and
feels firm when pressed gently with the back of a fork. Whitefish is done when
it turns opaque. This method works best with large, thick filets. Use a spatula
to lift the salmon away from the skin to serve. Garnish with lime slices, if
desired. 

Yield: 2 servings 

Note: If you are unable to grill the salmon, preheat your oven to 475 F. Leave
foil tray on the baking sheet and bake about 15 minutes, or until done. 
