Karaage (Japanese Fried Chicken)
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019428-karaage-japanese-fried-chicken

1-1/2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger, with its juice
2 teaspoons grated or smashed garlic (from about 3 cloves)
2 tablespoons dry sake
3 tablespoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
4 skin-on chicken thighs (about 1 1/2 to 2 pounds), deboned, cut into 2-inch chunks
Peanut oil, or a mixture of peanut and canola or safflower, for frying
1 cup potato starch (katakuriko)
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
Lemon wedge, for serving
Lettuce and cucumber slices, for serving (optional)

In a shallow baking dish large enough to hold the chicken, combine ginger,
garlic, sake, soy sauce and sugar. Toss chicken pieces in marinade to coat.
Cover and refrigerate for 24 to 48 hours.

Fill an aluminum or thin stainless steel pot (best for quick temperature
adjustments), with sides at least 5 inches tall, with about 3 inches of
peanut oil. Heat the oil to 350 degrees. Place several layers of newsprint or
paper towels on a sheet pan.

While the oil heats, place a wire rack over a second sheet pan. In a bowl,
combine potato starch, salt and pepper. Remove one piece of chicken at a time
from marinade, and tuck in any jagged bits or skin as you roll it in starch
mixture to coat. Rest it on the rack. Repeat with all chicken pieces.

Gently shake off excess potato starch before cooking each piece of chicken.
Fry 3 or 4 pieces at a time, keeping oil temperature around 325 degrees
(temperature will fall when you add chicken) and no lower than 300 degrees.
Fry for about 3 minutes, or until golden. Remove from oil using a wire-mesh
spoon or long chopsticks, and cool on newsprint or paper towels.

When all the chicken has been fried once, increase the oil’s temperature to
375 degrees. Fry chicken pieces a second time, keeping the oil between 350 and
375 degrees, until the crust is deep golden brown, about 1 minute. Drain on
newsprint or paper towels. This second frying makes the coating stay extra
crisp, even if you don’t serve it immediately.

Serve hot or at room temperature, with a lemon wedge, and lettuce and cucumber
slices for a cool, fresh contrast, if you like.

