Jewish Deli–Style Tuna Melt With Relish, Dill, Celery, and Swiss Recipe
Daniel Gritzer
https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2020/04/jewish-deli-tuna-melt.html

One 5-ounce (142g) canned oil- or water-packed tuna, drained well
1/2 cup (120g) mayonnaise, such as Hellmann's (see note)
2 tablespoons (10g) panko bread crumbs (optional; see note)
2 tablespoons (20g) minced red onion
1 tablespoon (5g) minced fresh dill
1 tablespoon (20g) drained sweet relish
1/2 rib celery (30g), very finely diced
1/2 teaspoon (5g) coarse ground mustard
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
Four 1/2-inch-thick slices rye sandwich bread
Vegetable oil, clarified butter, and/or melted butter, for brushing the bread
4 slices Swiss cheese

Adjust oven to middle position and preheat oven to 350°F (175°C). In a small
mixing bowl, combine tuna, mayonnaise, panko (if using), red onion, dill,
sweet relish, celery, and mustard. Stir, mashing very well with a fork or
stiff spatula, until almost no flakes of tuna remain. Season with salt and
pepper.

Using a pastry brush, lightly but evenly brush both sides of each slice of
bread with oil, clarified butter, or melted butter. In a large cast iron or
nonstick skillet, or using a griddle, toast bread slices on first side over
medium heat until nicely browned and crisp, about 3 minutes; using a cooking
weight or spatula, gently press down on bread slices while toasting to ensure
even heating and browning.

Flip bread and lay one slice of cheese on top of each bread slice. Mound tuna
salad on top of 2 of the bread slices, spreading it in an even layer. Close
sandwiches, placing top bread slices cheese side down, and continue to cook
until bottom of sandwich is well toasted; press down gently on sandwich with
cooking weights or a spatula to ensure even heating and browning.

Flip tuna melt and cook until second side is well toasted. If cheese at this
point isn't melted enough, transfer sandwiches to a baking sheet and heat in
oven until cheese is melted, about 3 minutes. Serve.
