Matzo Ball Soup
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/matzo-ball-soup
Alison Roman

Servings: 6

Chicken Stock:
4–5 lb. chicken, cut into 8 pieces
1 lb chicken wings, necks, and/or backs
2 large yellow onions, unpeeled, quartered
6 celery stalks, cut into 1" pieces
4 large carrots, peeled, cut into 1” pieces
1 large parsnip, peeled, cut into 1” pieces
1 large shallot, quartered
1 head of garlic, halved crosswise
6 sprigs flat-leaf parsley
1 Tbsp black peppercorns

Matzo Balls:
3 large eggs, beaten to blend
3/4 cup matzo meal
1/4 cup schmaltz (chicken fat), melted
3 Tbsp club soda
1-1/4 tsp kosher salt

Assembly:
2 small carrots, peeled, sliced 1/4" thick on a diagonal
Kosher salt
2 Tbsp coarsely chopped fresh dill
Coarsely ground fresh black pepper

Bring all checken stock ingredients and 12 cups cold water to a boil in a very
large (at least 12-qt.) stockpot. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer until
chicken breasts are cooked through, about 20 minutes.

Transfer breasts to a plate (remaining chicken parts are strictly for stock).
Let breasts cool slightly, then remove meat and return bones to stock. Shred
meat. Let cool, tightly wrap, and chill.

Continue to simmer stock, skimming surface occasionally, until reduced by
one-third, about 2 hours. Strain chicken stock through a fine-mesh sieve into
a large saucepan (or airtight container, if not using right away); discard
solids. You should have about 8 cups.

NOTE: Stock can be made 2 days ahead. Let cool; cover and chill. Keep
reserved chicken meat chilled.

Mix eggs, matzo meal, schmaltz, club soda, and salt in a medium bowl (mixture
will resemble wet sand; it will firm up as it rests). Cover and chill at least
2 hours.

NOTE: Matzo mixture can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.

Bring chicken stock to a boil in a large saucepan. Add carrots; season with
salt. Reduce heat and simmer until carrots are tender, 5–7 minutes. Remove
from heat, add reserved breast meat, and cover. Set soup aside.

Meanwhile, bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. Scoop out
2-tablespoonful portions matzo ball mixture and, using wet hands, gently roll
into balls.

Add matzo balls to water and reduce heat so water is at a gentle simmer (too
much bouncing around will break them up). Cover pot and cook matzo balls until
cooked through and starting to sink, 20–25 minutes.

DO AHEAD: Using a slotted spoon, transfer matzo balls to bowls. Ladle soup
over, top with dill, and season with pepper.
