America's Test Kitchen Matzo Ball Soup
https://www.americastestkitchen.com/recipes/5146-chicken-soup-with-matzo-balls
Serves 6

Matzo Balls
1/4 c chicken fat (schmaltz) or vegetable oil
1 onion, chopped fine
4 large eggs
1 tsp minced fresh dill
salt and pepper
1 c (4 oz) matzo meal

Soup
1 tbsp chicken fat (schmaltz) or vegetable oil
1 onion, chopped
2 carrots, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch chunks
2 celery ribs, chopped
1 parsnip, peeled and cut 1/2-inch chunks
salt and pepper
8 c chicken broth
1-1/2 lb chicken leg quarters, trimmed
1 tsp minced fresh dill

For the matzo balls:
1) Heat chicken fat in Dutch oven over medium heat until shimmering.  Add
onion and cook until light golden brown and softened, about 5 minutes.
Transfer onion to large bowl and let cool for 10 minutes.  (Do not clean pot.)

2) Whisk eggs, 4 tbsp water, dill, 3/4 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp pepper into
cooled onion mixture.  Fold in matzo meal until well combined.  Cover with
plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or up to 2 hours.  (Batter
will thicken as it sits.)

3) Bring 4 quarts water and 2 tbsp salt to boil in now-empty Dutch oven.
Divide batter into 12 portions (about 1 heaping tbsp each) and place on
greased plate.  Roll portions into smooth balls between your wet hands and
return to plate.  Transfer matzo balls to boiling water, cover, reduce heat
to medium-low and simmer until tender and cooked through, about 30 minutes.

4) Using slotted spoon, transfer matzo balls to colander and drain briefly.
Transfer balls to clean plate and let cool to firm up, about 10 minutes.
Discard cooking water.  (Do not clean pot.)

For the soup:
5) Meanwhile, heat chicken fat in large saucepan over medium heat until
shimmering.  Add onion, carrots, celery, parsnip, and 1/2 tsp salt and cook,
covered, until vegetables begin to soften, about 5 minutes.  Add broth,
chicken, and dill and bring to boil.  Cover, reduce heat to low, and cook
until chicken is tender, 35 to 45 minutes.  Remove from heat and transfer
chicken to plate.  Season soup with salt and pepper to taste.

6) Using 2 forks, shred chicken into bite-size pieces, discarding skin and
bones.  (Chicken can be used for soup or reserved for another use.)  Transfer
soup to now empty Dutch oven and bring to simmer over medium heat.  Carefully
transfer matzo balls to hot soup (along with shredded chicken, if using.)
Cover and cook until matzo balls are heated through, about 5 minutes.  Serve.

To make ahead:
Matzo balls and soup can be fully cooks, cooled, and refrigerated separately
in covered containers for up to 2 days.  To serve, return soup to simmer
over medium heat, add matzo balls, and cook until heated through, about 7
minutes.
