Mortadella Cookies
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1027495-mortadella-cookies
Claire Saffitz
Updated Dec. 10, 2025

Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 1 hour, plus at least 2-1/2 hours freezing
Yield: 24 cookies

1/2 cup/2 1/2 ounces raw macadamia nuts, chopped into 1/4inch pieces
3 tablespoons raw pistachios, chopped into 1/8 inch pieces
1 1/4 cups/163 grams all-purpose flour
1 1/2 ounces freeze-dried strawberries (about 2 cups)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (such as Diamond Crystal) or
     1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt (such as Morton)
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup/113 grams unsalted butter, chilled, cut into tablespoon-size pieces
4 ounces almond paste, cut into tablespoon-size pieces
2/3 cup/83 grams powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 large egg white, divided
1/3 cup/60 grams sanding sugar

Toss the macadamia nuts and pistachios on a cutting board or work surface to
combine, then lift the pieces into a small bowl, leaving behind any very fine
bits (reserve bits for stirring into yogurt or oatmeal, or adding to any
batter). Set the nut pieces aside.

In the bowl of a food processor, combine the flour, freeze-dried strawberries,
salt and baking powder. Process until the strawberries are completely ground
into the flour and the mixture is a uniform pink color, about 45 seconds. Sift
the flour mixture through a fine-mesh strainer onto a piece of parchment paper
that’s at least 14 inches long, discarding any bits of strawberry left in the
strainer. Set aside the flour mixture.

In the food processor bowl (no need to wash), combine the butter, almond paste,
powdered sugar and almond extract, and process, pausing once to scrape down
the bowl, until the mixture is completely smooth. In a small bowl, beat the
egg white with a fork until it’s broken up and just a little bit foamy, then
measure out 1 tablespoon and add to the food processor (reserve the remaining
egg white for a later step; see Tips). Process until smooth, scrape down the
bowl, then add the flour mixture (reserve the parchment paper). Process again
until a ball of dough forms around the blade, about 20 seconds, scraping
halfway through.

Turn the dough out onto the reserved parchment paper and knead briefly to
bring it together and eliminate any streaks. Pat down the dough until it’s
about 1/4inch thick, then sprinkle the reserved nuts over the top. Knead the
dough again until all of the nuts are evenly distributed, then form the dough
into a 10-inch-long log oriented lengthwise on the parchment paper. Roll the
log over the parchment into a smooth cylinder, then press any larger nut
pieces on the surface of the cylinder into the center, pinching the dough
around it to seal. (This will make the cookies easier to slice.)

Fold the end of the parchment paper farthest from you down and over the log,
and place a bench scraper over the parchment, angled slightly downward but
nearly parallel to the work surface. Push the scraper along the length of the
log to force it into a cylinder shape, packing the cylinder tightly, until you
have a log that’s about 12 inches long and a little less than 2 inches in
diameter.

Roll up the log into the parchment paper, then tightly wrap it in two layers
of plastic wrap, leaving some overhang. Grasping the excess parchment paper
and plastic wrap on both ends of the log, twist until the dough is tightly
compacted into a firm cylinder. Refrigerate until the dough is cold and firm,
at least 2 hours. (See Tips.)

Sprinkle the sanding sugar across a clean work surface or cutting board.
Remove the log of dough from the refrigerator and unwrap. Brush the surface of
the log all over with the reserved egg white, then roll the log in the sanding
sugar, pressing firmly so the sugar adheres, until it’s completely coated.
Place the log on a small cutting board and freeze until very firm but not
frozen solid, 15 to 20 minutes.

Heat oven to 300 degrees and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

Remove the dough from the freezer and use a sharp knife to slice off one end,
then slice the log into 1/4inch-thick rounds, placing them on the prepared
baking sheet about 1/2 inch apart (the cookies will spread slightly). As you
slice, rotate the log to maintain a round shape. Refrigerate any slices of
dough you weren’t able to fit on the baking sheet.

Transfer the baking sheet to the oven (center rack) and bake until the cookies
are just barely golden brown at the edges, 16 to 19 minutes. Let cool for
several minutes before transferring to a wire rack, then bake any remaining
cookies as you did the first batch.

Tips
* If you want a deeper pink color in your end result, add a few drops of red
  gel food coloring in Step 3.
* Dough log can be refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen for up to 2 months
  (coat in sanding sugar just before slicing). Thaw frozen dough in the
  refrigerator for 24 hours before slicing. Baked cookies will keep in an
  airtight container for several days (they will soften slightly over time).
