Nando’s Portuguese chicken and rice
https://www.recipetineats.com/portuguese-chicken-and-rice-one-pot-recipe/

PERI-NAISE:
3/4 cup mayonnaise, preferably whole egg (Note 1)
1 tsp smoked paprika (sub regular paprika)
1/2 tsp garlic powder (sub fresh garlic, finely grated)
1/2 tsp onion powder
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper (adjust or remove for not spicy)
1/2 tsp white sugar
1 tbsp lemon juice (or apple cider vinegar)
1/4 tsp cooking salt / kosher salt

PORTUGUESE CHICKEN:
1 lb chicken thighs, boneless, skinless, cut into bite size pieces
2 tsp paprika (regular/sweet, not spicy)
1 tsp garlic powder (substitute large garlic clove, minced)
1 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp coriander
1/4 tsp cayenne (can omit for zero spicy)
1 tbsp brown sugar
1 tsp cooking salt / kosher salt
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1/2 tbsp lemon juice (substitute apple cider vinegar)

NANDO’S COPYCAT SPICY RICE (OR NOT):
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, finely minced
1 small onion, diced
1 red capsicum (bell pepper), deseeded, chopped into 1 cm/0.4″ squares
1 1/2 cups basmati rice (or long grain rice or medium grain rice) (Note 2)
1/4 tsp chilli flakes / red pepper flakes (omit for not spicy)
2 tsp turmeric powder
2 1/4 cups chicken stock/broth, low sodium
1 cup frozen peas (still frozen)
1/2 tsp cooking salt / kosher salt

Green onion, finely sliced

Mix peri-naise ingredients together and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes

Mix the Portuguese Chicken seasoning ingredients in a bowl. Add chicken and
toss to coat. Set aside while you prepare the rest of the ingredients, or
overnight if you want (though not necessary).

Heat the 2 tablespoons of oil in a large heavy based pot over high heat. Add
the chicken and cook until the outside is sealed and gets a bit of colour (it
won't go golden). Remove with a slotted spoon into a bowl, leaving oil behind
in the pot.

Add garlic and onion into the pot, cook for 1 minute. Add capsicum and cook for
1 1/2 minutes or until onion is translucent.

Add rice and stir to coat in the tasty oil. Add remaining rice ingredients,
then scatter the chicken evenly across the surface. Also add any juices
accumulated in the bowl. Stir, bring to a simmer, then put the lid on and
lower heat to medium low so it's simmering gently.

Cook for 15 minutes, no peeking, no stirring! Liquid should be absorbed – tilt
pot and lift lid for quick peek.

Remove pot from the stove and leave to rest for 10 minutes with the lid still
on.

Remove lid, gently toss the rice. Spoon into bowls, drizzle over Peri-naise,
sprinkle with green onions and serve!
