Nashville-Style Hot Fried Chicken
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1016134-nashville-style-hot-fried-chicken
Recipe from Rodney Frazer
Adapted by Melissa Clark

Yield: 4 to 5 servings
Time: 1 hour 45 minutes, plus at least 13 hours for brining and resting

For the brine:

½ cup coarse kosher salt
⅓ cup ground black pepper
3 tablespoons onion powder
3 tablespoons garlic powder
3 tablespoons cayenne pepper
3 tablespoons paprika
3 ½ pounds chicken, cut into 10 pieces

For the very hot spice:

3 tablespoons cayenne pepper
1 to 2 teaspoons smoked ghost-chile powder or smoked hot paprika
2 tablespoons granulated sugar

For the dredge:

2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons granulated garlic
3 tablespoons granulated onion
2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 teaspoons ground black pepper
Safflower, corn or vegetable oil, for frying
2 large eggs

Prepare the brine: In a large bowl, whisk salt and spices in 2 cups boiling
water until salt dissolves. Whisk in 6 cups ice water. The brine should be
cold; if not, chill until it is. Add chicken pieces to the cold brine and
chill for at least 12 and up to 24 hours.

In a bowl, combine the ingredients for the very hot spice mixture. In another
bowl, prepare the dredge: combine the flour, granulated garlic and onion, salt
and pepper.

Remove chicken pieces from brine, pat dry with paper towels and season with a
light dusting of hot spice mixture. Dust pieces with dredge mixture. Reserve
both the remaining hot spice mixture and the dredge. Let chicken rest in
fridge, uncovered, for at least an hour for the coating to adhere.

Pour 2 inches of oil into a Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed pot with a cover.
Heat oil to 325 degrees on a deep-fat thermometer. In a shallow bowl, whisk
together eggs and 2 cups ice water to make egg wash. Dip chicken in egg wash,
then coat with more dredge. Shake pieces lightly so any excess dredge falls
off.

Carefully place chicken in hot oil, about 3 to 4 pieces per batch. Cover pot
with lid and let fry for 5 to 6 minutes, until golden brown on one side.
Remove lid and flip pieces. Fry another 5 to 6 minutes, uncovered. Using tongs,
transfer cooked chicken to a wire rack set over a baking sheet to catch the
oil drips. Dust with very hot spice as it comes out of the fryer.
