New York Cheesecake
Ingredients:
For the crust:
5 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted, plus 1 additional tbsp., melted for greasing
        the pan
4 oz. (approx. 8 whole) graham crackers, broken into rough pieces and
      processed into fine, even crumbs*
1 tbsp. sugar

(*Note – if you have a kitchen scale, definitely weigh the graham crackers.
I found the amount to be significantly different than the number of whole
crackers they suggest.  Of course, it varies depending on size/brand of
cracker.)
 
For the cheesecake: 
2 1/2 lb. (5 8-oz. pkgs.) cream cheese, cut into rough 1-inch chunks, at
          room temperature
1/8 tsp. salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/3 cup sour cream
2 tsp. freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 tsp. vanilla extract
2 large egg yolks plus 6 large eggs, at room temperature 

Directions:
To make the crust, adjust an oven rack to the lower-middle position and heat
the oven to 325 degrees F.  Brush the bottom and sides of a 9-inch springform
pan with 1/2 tablespoon of the melted butter.  In a medium bowl combine the
graham cracker crumbs, 5 tablespoons melted butter, and sugar.  Toss with a
fork until the crumbs are evenly moistened.  Transfer the crumbs to the
springform pan and use the bottom of a ramekin to firmly press the crumbs
evenly into the pan bottom.  (Note: this is a fabulous technique!  I have
used it several times since, and it does a great job.)  Bake until fragrant
and beginning to brown around the edges, about 13 minutes.  Cool on a wire
rack while preparing the filling.

Increase the oven temperature to 500 degrees F.  In the bowl of a stand mixer
fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese at medium-low speed
to break up and soften it slightly, about 1 minute.  Scrape the beater and the
bottom and sides of the bowl well with a rubber spatula; add the salt and
about half of the sugar and beat at medium-low speed until combined, about
1 minute.  Scrape the bowl; beat in the remaining sugar until combined, about
1 minute.  Scrape the bowl; add the sour cream, lemon juice, and vanilla.
Beat at low speed until combined, about 1 minute.  Scrape the bowl; add the
egg yolks and beat at medium-low speed until thoroughly combined, about
1 minute.  Scrape the bowl; add the remaining eggs 2 at a time, beating until
thoroughly combined, about 1 minute, scraping the bowl between additions.
(Note: with all this scraping of the sides, a side swipe beater blade is
incredibly helpful.  I still used a spatula just to be extra careful, but the
side swipe was a big help.)

Brush the sides of the springform pan with the remaining 1/2 tablespoon melted
butter.  Set the pan on a rimmed baking sheet to catch any spills in case the
pan leaks.  Pour the filling into the cooled crust and bake 10 minutes;
without opening the oven door, reduce the oven temperature to 200 degrees and
continue to bake until the cheesecake reads about 150 degrees on an
instant-read thermometer inserted in the center, about 1 1/2 hours.  Transfer
the cake to a wire rack and cool until barely warm, 2 1/2 to 3 hours.  Run a
paring knife between the cake and the springform pan sides.  Wrap tightly in
plastic wrap and refrigerate until cold, at least 3 hours.  

To unmold the cheesecake, removed the sides of the pan.  Slide a thin metal
spatula between the crust and the bottom of the pan to loosen, then slide the
cake onto a serving plate.  Let the cheesecake stand at room temperature about
30 minutes, then cut into wedges and serve.  (Use a long, thin, sharp knife
that has been run under hot water and then dried for slicing.  Wipe the blade
clean and rewarm between slices.)
