Oatmeal Raisin Rolls
Prep Time: 30 minutes
Cook Time: 15 minutes
Total Time: 3 hours, 30 minutes
Yield: 16 generously-sized rolls, one 9-by-13-inch pan

1 cup water, warmed
1/4 oz pkg yeast
1 large egg
1/4 cup honey
3 tablespoons canola oil
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste
3 1/2 cups bread flour (I use King Arthur Unbleached Bread Flour)
1 cup old-fashioned whole rolled oats (not quick cook or instant)
1 cup raisins (combination of raisins, cranberries, currants, or other
      dried fruit may be used)
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons honey

Add water to a glass measuring cup or microwave-safe bowl and heat on high
power to warm it, about 30 seconds. Testing with a thermometer is highly
recommended, but if testing with your finger, water should feel warm but not
hot.

To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the water
and sprinkle the yeast on top of it. Beat on low speed for about 10 seconds,
just to combine; let mixture stand for 10 minutes.

Add the egg, 1/4 cup honey, oil, salt, and mix until well-combined, about 2
minutes on low to medium-low speed. Add 3 cups flour, oats, raisins, cinnamon,
and beat until a dough forms. Scrape off any dough bits stuck to the paddle
and remove the paddle attachment. Put on the dough hook.

With the dough hook attached, turn mixer on low speed, and slowly sprinkle in
remaining 1/2 cup of flour. Knead dough for about 8 to 10 minutes, stopping to
scrape down the bowl and dough hook as necessary. Dough will be firm, smooth,
not sticky, and elastic. Place mounded ball of dough in a lightly greased
large bowl and cover with plasticwrap. Place mounded ball of dough in a
cooking sprayed or lightly greased large bowl and cover with plasticwrap.
Place bowl in a warm place until it has doubled in size, about 2 hours.

Tip - Preheating your oven for 1 minute to 400F, then shutting it off (make
sure you shut it off), and quickly sliding the bowl in so the hot air doesn't
escape is one way to create a warm environment; think 85 or 90F summer day
warm environment. A cooler environment simply means dough will take longer to
rise.

After dough has risen and doubled, punch it down to release the air bubbles,
and turn it out onto a Silpat or floured work surface. Knead for about 1
minute. Mound dough into a ball, place it back into the bowl, cover it, and
allow it to rest and relax for about 10 minutes, making it easier to shape
into rolls.

Prepare a 9-by-13-inch baking pan by lining it with aluminum foil, spray with
cooking spray; set aside.

Place dough on Silpat Non-Stick Baking Mat or floured work surface, and using
your hands, roll it into a long cylinder, about 16 inches in length. Divide
the log into 16 uniformly-sized pieces with a dough cutter or sharp knife.
Roll each piece into a ball, creating surface tension on the top of the ball
by stretching the dough over itself a bit and pinch off the bottom, tucking
the dough into itself. Place each piece into the prepared pan, seam side down,
uniformly spaced, four rows of four. (Dough may also be rolled into just a
simple 'plain ball', without pulling on the top surface of dough to create
tension and not bothering to pinch off the bottom a bit, but I find they rise
better and are fluffier if they're pinched off rather than just round dough
globes)

After all pieces are in the pan, cover it with plasticwrap and allow to dough
to rise for about 1 hour, or until rolls are nearly doubled in size. While
dough rises, preheat oven to 400F. A good place for this rise is placing
baking pan on the stovetop while oven is preheating for the carryover warmth.

Prepare honey-butter mixture by melting butter in a microwave-safe bowl on
high power, about 1 minute. To the melted butter, add 2 tablespoons honey and
stir to combine; set aside. After the rolls have risen and before baking,
brush tops and sides of dough with the honey-butter mixture, getting into the
sides and crevices and with a pastry brush. Bake rolls for about 15 minutes or
until golden; they bake up very fast and watch them closely so the
honey-butter mixture doesn't burn in this very hot oven. Allow rolls to cool
before serving. Serve with Honey Butter or Cinnamon-Sugar Butter.

Rolls may be stored at room temperature in an airtight container or ziplock
bag for up to 4 days. Rolls also freeze very well and can be made from start
to finish, cooled, and placed in a freezer-safe airtight container or a
ziplock for up to 3 months. When ready to serve, unthaw them and if desired,
immediately prior to serving warm them in a low oven (~175 to 200F) for a few
minutes and just until warmed.
