One Pot Cajun Beef Pasta with lots-of-veg
https://www.recipetineats.com/one-pot-cajun-beef-pasta/
Author: Nagi
Prep: 15 minutes
Cook: 25 minutes
Servings: 3

ONE-POT PASTA:
1/2 tbsp olive oil
1 garlic cloves , finely minced
1/2 onion , chopped
1/2 lb ground beef (or kangaroo)
1/2 carrot , medium, shredded using box grater (I keep skin on)
1/2 zucchini , medium, shredded using box grater (Note 2)
1/2 red bell pepper, chopped
Handful of baby spinach (optional)
1 tbsp tomato paste
12 oz canned crushed tomato
6 oz kidney beans , drained (or other beans of choice, can omit)
1 cup chicken stock/broth , low sodium (sub beef stock)
1 cup water (just regular tap water!)
6 oz (1 1/3 cups) macaroni, spirals, penne, ziti, small shells, rigatoni, etc.
    uncooked
2/3 cup (tightly packed) colby cheese or other melting cheese of choice,
    preferably freshly shredded (melts better)
1/2 green onion stem , finely sliced (optional garnish)

CAJUN SPICES:
1/2 tsp dried thyme
1/2 tbsp paprika (sweet/regular, not smoked or spicy)
1 tsp garlic powder
1 tsp onion powder
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper, optional (faintly spicy)
1/8 tsp black pepper
1/2 tsp cooking salt / kosher salt

Heat the oil in a large heavy based pot with a lid over high heat.

Cook the onion and garlic for 2 minutes. Add the beef and cook, breaking it up
as you go, until you no longer see red meat. Add the carrot and zucchini, cook
for 2 minutes until the water they release mostly evaporates. Add the bell
pepper and cook for 2 minutes.

Add the tomato paste and Cajun Spices. Cook for 1 minute.

Add the canned tomato, water (I swill the cans clean), stock and beans. Mix
and bring to a simmer.

Add the pasta, stir, let it come back up to the simmer. Put the lid on and
lower the heat slightly to medium so the liquid is simmering (not bubbling
madly).

Cook for 15 minutes, stirring every few minutes so the base doesn't catch.
The pasta should be a bit firmer than you want in the middle, and still a bit
soupy which is good! Liquid gets absorbed in the next step.

Give it a stir, smooth the surface, sprinkle with cheese. Put the lid on then
turn the stove off (leave the pot on the stove). Leave for 3 minutes so the
residual heat melts the cheese and the pasta finishes cooking.

Remove from the stove, sprinkle with green onion if desired, then serve
immediately while saucy and the cheese is gooey!
