One-Pan, One-Pot Thanksgiving Dinner
Melissa Clark
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1021632-one-pan-one-pot-thanksgiving-dinner

Yield: 3 to 4 servings, with leftovers
Time: 3 hours, plus marinating

For the Turkey and Sprouts:

1 (2- to 2 1/2-pound) boneless turkey breast
Kosher salt and black pepper
2 large garlic cloves, finely grated
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme leaves
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon mayonnaise
8 ounces bacon (not thick-cut)
1 pound brussels sprouts, trimmed and halved lengthwise
Extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 teaspoon coriander or caraway seeds, lightly crushed

For the Sweet Potatoes:

4 small, slim sweet potatoes or garnet yams (about 8 ounces each)
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
4 teaspoons molasses
Freshly grated nutmeg
Kosher salt
1/2 cup mini marshmallows

For the Cranberry Sauce:

3/4 cup granulated sugar
2/3 cup fresh squeezed orange juice (from 2 oranges)
1 (2-inch) cinnamon stick or 1 star anise pod
1 (12-ounce) bag fresh cranberries or thawed frozen cranberries (3 cups)

For the Gravy:

1/4 cup unsalted butter (1/2 stick)
1/2 small onion, chopped
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup dry white wine
2 to 2 1/2 cups turkey or chicken stock
Kosher salt

For the Stuffing:

3 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for topping
1 small onion, diced
1 celery rib, diced
Kosher salt and black pepper
2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
1 1/2 teaspoons chopped fresh sage
1 quart torn day-old white or whole-wheat bread, not too crusty (see Tip)
3/4 to 1 cup turkey or chicken broth
1 large egg
2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

Marinate the turkey: If the turkey breast comes tied, untie it. Pat the meat
dry with paper towels. Season the turkey all over with 1 1/2 teaspoons salt
and 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, then rub with garlic and thyme leaves. Place
turkey on a plate or in a container, cover and refrigerate for at least 1
hour or up to 24.

Place a rack in the top third of your oven and another rack in the bottom
third. Depending on your pace, you might want to have two timers at the ready.

As the turkey marinates, start the sweet potatoes: Heat oven to 400 degrees.
Wrap potatoes individually in two or three layers of foil so they don’t leak,
and place them on a rimmed baking sheet. Bake on the top rack until very soft
when you squeeze them (use oven mitts), 45 minutes to 1 hour. Let potatoes
cool in the foil and reserve the sheet pan for the turkey.

While the sweet potatoes bake, make the cranberry sauce: In a medium pot,
combine sugar, orange juice, 1/4 cup water and cinnamon stick or star anise.
Bring to a simmer and add cranberries. Cook until the cranberries burst and
the sauce starts to thicken, 12 to 18 minutes. It will be thin, but will
thicken as it chills. Transfer to a serving dish and let cool at room
temperature, then refrigerate until serving. Remove cinnamon stick or star
anise before serving.

Clean out the pot and make the gravy: Melt 1/4 cup butter over medium heat,
then add the onion and cook, stirring, until pale golden brown, 5 to 8 minutes.
Add the flour and cook until the flour turns golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes.
Whisk in the wine and cook until it mostly evaporates, another 30 seconds to
1 minute. Whisk in 2 cups stock, letting it simmer until thick, 4 to 6 minutes.
If the gravy gets too thick, add more stock as needed. Season with salt to
taste. Transfer gravy to an insulated container, like a lidded coffee cup or
Thermos, to keep warm.

Make the stuffing in the same pot: Melt 3 tablespoons butter over medium heat.
Stir in onion, celery and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cook until soft and just starting
to brown, about 15 minutes. Stir in thyme and sage and cook 1 minute. Remove
from heat and stir in bread and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.

In a medium bowl, whisk together 3/4 cup broth, egg, parsley and 1/4 teaspoon
salt. Fold gently into bread mixture, letting the bread absorb the liquid. If
the mixture seems dry, add more stock a little at a time, using up to another
1/4 cup. Dot the surface of the stuffing with a few thin pieces of butter.
Cover pot with a lid (or foil) and bake the stuffing on the bottom oven rack
until lightly springy, about 20 minutes. Uncover and continue to bake until
golden brown, another 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer stuffing to the top of your
stove, off the heat, and re-cover to keep it warm until the turkey is ready.
Wash the bowl and set aside for the sprouts.

While the stuffing bakes, roast the turkey: Brush or spread the mustard all
over the turkey, then brush with the mayonnaise. Wrap the turkey in bacon and
place on a rimmed baking sheet pan. Roast turkey on the top oven rack for 20
minutes.

Put the brussels sprouts in the medium bowl and toss with enough olive oil to
coat, coriander and a pinch of salt. Add the brussels sprouts to the sheet pan
with the turkey. Continue to roast until the sprouts are golden and tender,
and a thermometer inserted in the thickest part of the turkey registers 145
degrees, 20 to 30 minutes longer (for a total roasting time of 40 to 50
minutes). If the turkey is done before the sprouts, use tongs to transfer it
to a cutting board and lightly tent with foil. Leave the sprouts in the oven
until done. (If the bacon isn’t as brown and crisp as you like, broil the
bacon-clad turkey — but not the sprouts — for 1 to 3 minutes.) Allow meat to
rest 10 minutes before slicing.

Finish sweet potatoes: Cut a long slit in the top of the sweet potatoes,
leaving them in the foil. Push their ends toward each other so that the middle
opens up. Use a fork to mash their centers. Then mash 1/2 tablespoon butter,
1 teaspoon molasses and some grated nutmeg and salt into each potato. Divide
the marshmallows among potatoes and place on the sheet pan after the turkey is
done. (The potatoes can share the pan with the brussels sprouts if they need
more time.) Bake for about 5 minutes while the turkey rests. Serve.

Tip: If the bread for your stuffing isn’t a day or two old, you can dry it out
in a 250-degree oven for 10 to 30 minutes (depending upon how soft it is),
tossing once or twice. It should be dry and firm, but not rock hard.
