Oven Baked Riced Broccoli Cauliflower Risotto (Low Carb)
https://www.cottercrunch.com/riced-broccoli-cauliflower-risotto/

Author: Lindsay Cotter
Prep Time: 12 mins
Cook Time: 25 mins
Yield: 4 servings

1 head of cauliflower and 3-4 small crown broccoli, cut into small chunks
  (bottom stem and leaves trimmed off) (about 5–6 cups riced)
2 pieces of uncured bacon, cut into small pieces or butter/oil for
  vegetarian option
1 large shallot or 3/4 c red onion finely chopped
3 garlic cloves finely chopped (about 1 tsp minced)
1/4 c chopped asparagus (celery works as a substitute)
sea salt and black pepper to taste
1/2 c – 2/3 broth c (120ml) or chicken stock
Thyme leaves, plus oil to fry it in (optional)

Optional Toppings

Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese (omit for Whole30 and paleo)
Butter
Finely chopped fresh herbs
Lemon slices
peppercorns

Preheat oven to 350F.

In small batches, put the cauliflower chunks into a food processor.  Process
until the cauliflower has the consistency of rice. Repeat with broccoli
florets. Combine the two in a large bowl. Set aside.

Chop the bacon into small pieces. Bacon is optional. If you don’t want to use
bacon, replace with olive oil or refined avocado oil.

Add bacon, shallot, and garlic to a wide skillet over medium-high heat. Saute
until bacon becomes brown (crispy edges) and onion is translucent and fragrant,
about 5 to 7 minutes. If the bacon hasn’t released enough fat, add a little
bit of olive oil or butter to the pot.

Add the asparagus (or celery) and saute for 5 minutes more.

Next, mix in the riced broccoli and cauliflower. Stir ingredients together
over medium heat.

Stir in the chicken stock and place a few sprigs of fresh thyme on top.  Cover
the pot and place in the oven for 13-15 minutes.

While that’s cooking, feel free to fry your herbs. This is optional but easy
and delicious!. Simply place the thyme in a pan and cover with oil. Cook (fry)
on high for 45-60 seconds. Remove and pat dry. Your herbs will be crispy and
perfect for garnishing!

Take the risotto out of the oven and place on stove over medium heat. Stir in
generous amounts of grated Parmesan cheese, a touch of butter, the fried
thyme, and a squeeze of lemon.

Garnish with lemon slices and peppercorns
