Pasta Caprese

This dish will be very warm, not hot. The success of this recipe depends on
high-quality ingredients, including ripe, in-season tomatoes and a fruity
olive oil (the test kitchen prefers Columela Extra-Virgin). Don't skip the
step of freezing the mozzarella, as freezing prevents it from turning chewy
when it comes in contact with the hot pasta. If handmade buffalo- or
cow's-milk mozzarella is available (it's commonly found in gourmet and cheese
shops packed in water), we highly recommend using it, but skip the step of
freezing and add it to the tomatoes while marinating. Additional lemon juice
or up to 1 teaspoon sugar can be added at the end to taste, depending on the
ripeness of the tomatoes.

Serves 4 to 6
1/4 cup  extra-virgin olive oil
2-4 tsp  fresh lemon juice (see note above)
1 small  garlic clove, minced or pressed through a garlic press (about 1/2 tsp)
1 small  shallot, minced fine (about 2 tablespoons)
         Table salt and ground black pepper
1 1/2 lb ripe tomatoes, cored, seeded, and cut into 1/2-inch dice
12 oz    fresh mozzarella cheese, cut into 1/2-inch cubes (see note above)
1 lb     penne pasta or other short tubular or curly pasta such as fusilli or
         campanelle
1/4 c    chopped fresh basil
1 tsp    sugar (see note above)

1. Whisk oil, 2 teaspoons lemon juice, garlic, shallot, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and
1/4 teaspoon pepper together in large bowl. Add tomatoes and gently toss to
combine; set aside. Do not marinate tomatoes for longer than 45 minutes.
2. While tomatoes are marinating, place mozzarella on plate and freeze until
slightly firm, about 10 minutes. Bring 4 quarts water to rolling boil in
stockpot. Add 1 tablespoon salt and pasta, stir to separate, and cook until
al dente. Drain well.
3. Add pasta and mozzarella to tomato mixture and gently toss to combine. Let
stand 5 minutes. Stir in basil; adjust seasonings with salt, pepper, and
additional lemon juice or sugar, if desired, and serve immediately.

PROBLEM: Mozzarella Chewing Gum
Industrially produced mozzarella clumps into a rubbery, stringy mess when
combined with hot pasta.
SOLUTION: Dice, then freeze
Freezing the cheese for 10 minutes before combining it with the pasta
prevents it from turning into taffy.
