Peanut Butter Stuffed Brownies
https://sallysbakingaddiction.com/2014/05/09/peanut-butter-stuffed-brownies/
Yield: 16-20 brownies
Prep Time: 30 minutes
Total Time: 1 hour, 15 minutes plus cooling

1/2 cup (115g) salted butter
8 ounces (228g) coarsely chopped quality semi-sweet chocolate
3/4 cup (150g) granulated sugar
1/4 cup (50g) packed light brown sugar
3 large Eggland's Best eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup + 2 Tablespoons (80g) all-purpose flour (measure this accurately)
2 Tablespoons (11g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon salt

Peanut Butter Filling
3/4 cup (185g) creamy peanut butter
1 cup (120g) confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 Tablespoons (30ml) milk
2 Tablespoons each chocolate chips and peanut butter chips

Melt the butter and chopped chocolate in a medium saucepan on medium heat,
stirring constantly, about 5 minutes. Or melt in a medium microwave safe bowl
in 20 second increments, stirring after each, in the microwave. Remove from
the heat, pour into a large mixing bowl, and allow to slightly cool for 10
minutes.

While the chocolate mixture is cooling, make the peanut butter filling. In a
medium bowl using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment,
beat the peanut butter, confectioners' sugar, vanilla, and milk together on
medium-high speed until combined. The mixture will be very thick - like a
crumbly cookie dough. Set aside.

Adjust the oven rack to the lower third position and preheat oven to 350F
degrees. Line the bottom and sides of a 9x9 inch square baking pan with
aluminum foil, leaving an overhand on all sides. Set aside.

Whisk the granulated and brown sugars into the cooled chocolate/butter
mixture. Add the eggs, one at a time, whisking until smooth after each
addition. Whisk in the vanilla. Gently fold in the flour, cocoa powder, and
salt.

Pour/spread half of the brownie batter into the prepared baking pan. Take
large chunks of the peanut butter filling and flatten with your hands. Place
flat pieces in an even layer on top of the brownie layer. Pour/spread the
remaining brownie batter on top. Top with the chocolate chips and peanut
butter chips. Using the back of a spatula, gently press the chips into the
brownie batter.

Bake for 35-36 minutes or until the brownies begin to pull away from the edges
of the pan. (The brownies may slightly crack in the center - that's because
air in between the peanut butter layers is trying to escape. That's normal!) A
toothpick inserted in the center should come out with only a few moist crumbs
when the brownies are done. All ovens are different, so keep an eye on them
after 30 minutes and use the toothpick test to see when yours are finished.

Allow the brownies to cool completely in the pan set on a wire rack. Once
cooled, lift the foil out of the pan using the overhang on the sides and cut
into squares. For neat squares, I use a very sharp knife and wipe it clean
with a paper towel after each cut.

Make ahead tip: Brownies stay fresh in an airtight container at room
temperature for 1 week. You can freeze the brownies for up to 3 months. Thaw
overnight in the refrigerator before serving and glazing.
