Peanut Butter Blossoms
https://www.twopeasandtheirpod.com/peanut-butter-blossoms/

1-3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup creamy peanut butter
1 cup granulated sugar, divided
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 tablespoon milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
30 Hershey's Chocolate Kisses, unwrapped 

In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda and salt; set aside. 

Using a stand mixer or hand mixer, cream together butter, peanut butter,
1/2 cup granulated sugar, and brown sugar until smooth, scraping down the
side of the bowl if necessary. 

Add the egg, milk and vanilla extract. Beat until combined. Add the flour
mixture and mix on low until just combined. Don’t over mix.

Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator for at least 30
minutes. Can be chilled for up to 72 hours. Place the Hershey’s Kisses in the
freezer so they are frozen when you put them on the cookies. This will help
the kisses to keep their shape and not melt. 

When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet
with a Silpat baking mat or parchment paper. Roll the peanut butter cookie
dough into balls, about 1 tablespoon of dough per cookie. Place the remaining
1/2 cup sugar in a small bowl. Roll the cookie dough balls in the sugar until
they are generously coated. 

Place the cookie dough balls onto the prepare baking sheet, about 2 inches
apart. Bake the cookies until they start to crack on the edges, about 8 or 9
minutes. Remove the baking sheet from oven and lightly press a frozen
chocolate kiss into the center of each cookie, allowing it to crack slightly.
Return to oven and bake for an additional 2 minutes. Remove from the oven and
let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a
cooling rack and cool until the kisses harden. If you want to speed up the
process, you can put the cookies in the freezer so the kisses will harden
faster. 
