Pear Gruyère Pie

Makes one 9 to 10 inch pear pie

Gruyère Pie Crust:
2 1/2 c. unbleached all-purpose flour
1 tsp salt
1 tbsp. sugar
20 tbsp. unsalted butter, cut into 1 in pieces
3 oz. Gruyère, grated finely
6-7 tbsp. ice water

Whisk together the flour, salt, sugar and grated gruyere in a large mixing
bowl. Using a food processor, mix butter and flour/cheese mixture until the
largest butter chunks are the size of large peas.

Remove flour/cheese/butter mixture from food processor return it to the
large mixing bowl. Sprinkle ice water over flour in increments of one
tablespoon, toss with fork after each addition. Be careful not to add too
much water. You can get an even water distribution by adding putting the
water in one of those spritzer bottles. When dough begins to clump together
as you stir, test the dough by squeezing it in your hands, if it forms in
a lump then gather the rest of the dough together into two separate disks,
leaving one slightly larger than the other. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap
and refrigerate overnight. Or if you are in a rush, toss the dough in the
freezer for about an hour, when it's solid yet still gives slightly under
your touch, it's ready to go.

Spiced Poached Pear Pie Filling:
3 lbs. Bartlett pears
1/4 c. white sugar
3/4 c. port wine
1 1/2 c. water
2 tsp. cornstarch
2 tsp vanilla
1/2 tsp. ginger
1/4 tsp. nutmeg
1/4 tsp clove
1 cinnamon stick

1 egg, lightly beaten (for crust)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

Add sugar, wine, water, vanilla, cinnamon stick, ginger, nutmeg and clove
into a large stock pot or dutch oven. Bring to a boil. Put an empty medium
bowl into the freezer to chill.

Peel and halve pears. Scoop the core and seeds out and then cut the halves
in half. Once liquid mixture has come to a boil add cut pears. Simmer for
about 20 minutes until the pears are tender.

Using a slotted spoon remove the pear quarters from the poaching liquid
and put them into the chilled bowl.

Return the poaching liquid to a boil and reduce until you have about 3/4 of
a cup of syrup. Add 2 teaspoons of cornstarch to the syrup to thicken the
syrup further. Pour the syrup into a measuring cup and chill.

In the meantime, roll the larger piece of dough into a circle around
fourteen inches in diameter. I roll out the dough between two pieces of
plastic wrap to keep it from sticking. Peel off one side of the plastic
wrap and center that side of the dough in the pie plate then remove the
other sheet of plastic wrap.

Remove the pears from the chilled bowl layer them into the bottom of the
pie.  Pour the syrup on top of the pears.

Roll out the slightly smaller dough dish into circle around twelve inches
in diameter. Place this dough round on top of the pie. Seal the crusts
together using a fork or your fingers. Brush the top of the pie with the
beaten egg, and make three parallel slits in the top crust to allow steam
to escape. Or if you are feeling fancy pantsy, feel free to make decorative
cutouts.

Put the pie on a cookie sheet to catch any drips--I like to cover my cookie
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil to minimize the mess. Put the
pie in the oven, bake until the crust is golden and you can see the filling
bubble up between the slits in the crust, about 30 to 40 minutes. Cool and
serve with vanilla ice cream.
