PEPPERMINT FUDGE CAKE 

Marcel Desaulniers, owner of The Trellis in Williamsburg, Virginia, is known
as a master of chocolate. This recipe shows why.

For cake 
2   cups all purpose flour
1 1/2   teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1   cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 2/3   cups boiling water
1   cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2   cups sugar
1 1/2   teaspoons vanilla extract
3   large eggs

For peppermint mousse 
10  ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Bakers), chopped
1 3/4   cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sour cream
24  red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies, crushed (about 2/3 cup)

For ganache 
2   cups whipping cream
16  ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped 

Make cake: Preheat oven to 325F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake
pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, baking soda and salt in small
bowl to blend. Place cocoa in medium bowl; whisk in 1 2/3 cups boiling water.
Cool cocoa mixture to room temperature, whisking occasionally.

Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat
in sugar, then vanilla. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. At low speed, beat in flour
mixture in 3 additions alternately with cocoa mixture in 2 additions. Divide
batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into
center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Cut
around cakes to loosen; turn out onto racks. Cool completely.

Make peppermint mousse: Combine white chocolate, 3/4 cup whipping cream and
sour cream in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat just until chocolate
is melted and smooth. Transfer white chocolate mixture to large bowl; cool to
barely lukewarm, whisking occasionally, about 20 minutes. Mix in candies. Beat
remaining 1 cup cream in medium bowl to soft peaks. Fold cream into barely
lukewarm white chocolate mixture in 4 additions. Chill mousse until beginning
to set, about 2 hours. Place 1 cake layer on 8-inch cardboard round. Spread
half of mousse over top of cake. Top with second cake layer, remaining mousse
and third cake layer. Chill assembled cake until mousse is cold and set, about
3 hours.

Meanwhile, prepare ganache: Bring cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan.
Remove from heat. Add bittersweet chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth.
Cool ganache until thick but still pourable, about 45 minutes.

Place cake on rack set over baking sheet. Pour ganache over cake, spreading
with metal spatula to cover sides evenly. Chill cake until ganache sets, at
least 30 minutes and up to 1 day. 

Makes 10 to 12 servings.

Bon Appetit
September 2000
Marcel Desaulniers
The Trellis, Williamsburg, VA
