Homestyle Pot Roast
http://www.garlicandzest.com/homestyle-pot-roast
Serves 4

2 to 2.5 pound boneless chuck roast
3 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon fresh ground black pepper
16 ounces thick sliced button mushrooms
1 medium onion, peeled and sliced root to tip into eighths
4 carrots, peeled and cut into 1" pieces
2 stalks celery, cut into 1" pieces
4 small red skinned potatoes, cut into quarters
1 1/4 cups beef broth
2/3 cup drinkable red wine
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon dried mushroom powder (optional) (see note)
3-4 sprigs of thyme and 3-4 sprigs fresh rosemary tied into a bundle
     with kitchen twine
2 bay leaves

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.

In a large dutch oven, heat the oil over medium high heat.

Use a paper towel to dry all the moisture off the chuck roast. Sprinkle with
salt and pepper. Sear the meat in the dutch oven for 3-4 minutes on each side,
until it forms a nice crust. Transfer the meat to a platter and add the
mushrooms with a sprinkle of salt. Stir and place the lid on the pan until the
mushrooms start to give up their liquid. Cook for 5-8 minutes, stirring
occasionally. When most of the liquid has evaporated from the mushrooms, add
the onions and cook for an additional 2-3 minutes until crisp tender. Add the
chuck roast and any accumulated drippings back to the dutch oven. Add the
carrots, celery and potatoes, thyme bundle and bay leaves.

Stir together the broth, red wine and tomato paste and pour over the
vegetables. Cover and heat to boiling. Transfer the covered pot to the oven
and braise for 2 1/2-3 hours until meat is tender.

Notes
Sometimes the dried mushrooms in my pantry go past the point of reconstituting
in water and look more like a fossil from the cretaceous period than the
aforementioned dried mushroom. I don't waste them, though. I make mushroom
powder. To make mushroom powder, put dried mushrooms (like porcini) into a
spice grinder and pulse until a fine powder forms. Store in an airtight
container. Whenever I want to add more umami flavor to a braised dish, I add a
tablespoon or two of mushroom powder.
