The BEST Pumpkin Pie
http://www.instructables.com/id/The-BEST-Pumpkin-Pie/

1 pie dough for 9-inch pie, fit into pan, edges trimmed, rolled, and fluted,
   refrigerated and/or frozen at least 20 minutes

For the filling:
2 cups plain pumpkin puree (16 ounces), canned or fresh
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon fresh grated nutmeg
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon table salt
2/3 cup heavy cream
2/3 cup milk
4 large eggs

(I find Penzey's Spices makes a wonderful Pumpkin Pie spice mix, I replace the
ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves with 2 1/2 tsp. pumpkin pie spice.) 

Remove chilled pie dough from refrigerator/freezer, using table fork, prick
bottom and sides - including where they meet - at 1/2-inch intervals. Chill
shell for at least 30 minutes (preferably an hour or more), to allow dough to
relax.

Flatten a 12-inch square of aluminum foil inside shell, pressing it flush
against corners, sides, and over rim. Prick foil bottom in about a dozen places
with a fork. (I use 2 sheets of nonstick foil - nonstick side down -
perpendicular to each other to make sure the whole shell is covered. and I
fill the shell with beans.) 

Adjust oven rack to lowest position and heat oven to 400 degrees. (Start
preparing filling when you put shell into oven.) Bake 15 minutes, pressing down
on foil with mitt-protected hands to flatten any puffs. Remove foil and bake
shell for 8 to 10 minutes longer, or until interior just begins to color. (I
find my homemade dough takes longer to parbake, about 25 minutes, check at 15
minutes and if the crust doesn't look dry, continue baking, checking every 5
minutes until crust looks dry and is just starting to brown, remove foil and
continue for 8-10 minutes.)  

Process pumpkin, brown sugar, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt in a
food processor fitted with steel blade for 1 minute.

Transfer pumpkin mixture to a 3-quart heavy-bottomed saucepan (no need to clean
food processor bowl); bring it to a sputtering simmer over medium-high heat.
Cook pumpkin, stirring constantly, until thick and shiny, about 5 minutes.

As soon as pie shell comes out of oven, whisk heavy cream and milk into
pumpkin and bring to a bare simmer.

Process eggs in food processor until whites and yolks are mixed, about 5
seconds. With motor running, slowly pour about half of hot pumpkin mixture
through feed tube. Stop machine and scrape in remaining pumpkin. Process 30
seconds longer. 

Immediately pour warm filling into hot pie shell (for easier pouring, I
transfer the filling to a 4-cup measuring cup). (Pour/ladle any excess filling
into pie after it has baked for 5 minutes or so - by this time filling will
have settled.) Bake until filling is puffed, dry-looking, and lightly cracked
around edges, and center wiggles like gelatin when pie is gently shaken, about
25 minutes. Cool on a wire rack for at least 1 hour.

If not serving immediately, cover and refrigerate, bring to room temperature
before serving. Top with whipped cream, if desired.
