Red Bean Stew
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1013868-red-bean-stew
Martha Rose Shulman
Yield: 6 servings
Time: 1 hour 30 minutes

Hungarian gulyas (goulash) is the inspiration here, but this one is a
vegetable dish. It has a deep, rich flavor redolent of paprika, garlic, lots
of sweet peppers and onions. I like to serve this with noodles, or over thick
slices of country bread. Note that soaking the beans is not absolutely
necessary, but I find that they cook more evenly and have a more uniform,
pillowy texture if I do.

1 pound (2 1/4 cups) red beans, washed, picked over and soaked for 6 hours or overnight in 2 quarts water
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
1 medium or large onion, chopped
6 garlic cloves, minced
2 carrots, peeled and chopped
1 large or 2 small green bell peppers, cut in small dice
2 tablespoons sweet Hungarian paprika
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 bay leaf
Salt
1 teaspoon oregano
Pinch of cayenne
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1/2 teaspoon sugar
Freshly ground pepper
1/2 cup minced fresh parsley, or a combination of parsley and dill
1/2 cup drained yogurt for topping

Drain the beans through a strainer set over a bowl. Place the beans in a large
soup pot or Dutch oven. Measure the soaking water in the bowl, and add enough
water to it to measure 2 1/2 quarts. Add this to the pot with the beans, turn
the heat to medium-high and bring to a gentle boil. Skim off any foam and/or
bean skins.

Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over medium heat in a large, heavy
skillet and add the onions, carrots and peppers. Cook, stirring often, until
the vegetables are tender and fragrant, about 8 to 10 minutes. Add 2 of the
garlic cloves and continue to cook for another minute or so, until the garlic
is fragrant. Season to taste with salt, add another tablespoon of oil and add
the paprika. Cook, stirring, for a couple of minutes, until the vegetables are
well coated with paprika and the mixture is aromatic. Add a ladleful of
simmering water from the beans to the pan, stir with a wooden spoon or
heatproof spatula, scraping the bottom and sides of the pan to deglaze, then
stir this mixture into the beans. Add the tomato paste and bay leaf, reduce
the heat, cover and simmer 1 hour.

Add the oregano, the remaining garlic cloves, salt to taste, cayenne, vinegar
and sugar, and continue to simmer for another hour. The beans should be
thoroughly tender and the broth thick and fragrant. Taste and adjust salt, and
add more cayenne if desired. For a thicker stew, strain out 1 heaped cup of
beans with a little liquid and puree. Stir back into the stew.

Just before serving, stir in the parsley. Serve over noodles or thick slices
of country bread, topping each portion with a large dollop of drained yogurt.
