Roasted Rhubarb Cobbler
By Melissa Clark
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1022095-roasted-rhubarb-cobbler
Yield: 6 to 8 servings
Time: 1 1/2 hours

Rhubarb Filling:

1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise (or use 1/2 teaspoon vanilla paste or
    1 tablespoon vanilla extract)
2 pounds rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (about 7 cups)
3/4 cup/150 grams granulated sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
Pinch of kosher salt

Biscuit Topping:

3/4 cups/96 grams all-purpose flour, plus more for shaping
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2-1/4 teaspoons baking powder
Pinch of kosher salt
3 tablespoon cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1/3 cup/79 milliliters plus 1 tablespoon heavy cream, plus more for serving,
    if you like
Demerara sugar, for sprinkling
Ice cream, for serving (optional)

Heat oven to 425 degrees. Using the tip of a paring knife, scrape the pulp out
of the vanilla bean halves and add the pulp to a 1 1/2 quart gratin or baking
dish or 9-by-9-inch pan along with the scraped-out pods. (Alternatively, add
the paste or extract to the pan.) Add the rhubarb, sugar, zest and salt, and
toss well. Let sit at room temperature to macerate while preparing the biscuit
dough.

Make the biscuit dough: Put the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt in a food
processor. Pulse to combine. Add cubed butter, then pulse until the mixture
has formed lime bean-size pieces. Drizzle in 1/3 cup heavy cream and pulse
until everything just clumps together, taking care not to overprocess. (To
make the dough by hand, put the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt in a large
bowl and whisk to combine. Add cubed butter, then mix it in with your hands,
pinching and squeezing with your fingers — or use a pastry blender — until the
largest pieces are the size of peas. Drizzle in 1/3 cup heavy cream a little
at a time, mixing until the dough comes together.)

Dump the dough onto a lightly floured surface, and gently pat it together
until it’s a cohesive lump. Using a small ice cream scoop or a large spoon,
form dough into 6 evenly sized balls. Slightly flatten dough balls into thick
rounds. Cover rounds with plastic wrap and chill for at least 30 minutes (and
up to 6 hours).

Put the rhubarb in the oven and roast, stirring halfway through, until the
rhubarb has softened and the liquid has formed a syrup, about 30 minutes.

Remove pan from oven and use tongs to remove the vanilla bean pods.

Lower oven temperature to 375 degrees. Arrange biscuit rounds on top of the
rhubarb, leaving space in between them. Brush biscuits with remaining
tablespoon of heavy cream and sprinkle with Demerara sugar.

Bake cobbler until biscuits are golden brown, about 25 to 35 minutes. Serve
warm or at room temperature, with cream or ice cream, if you like.
