Roasted Garlic Mac and Cheese

1 head garlic
1 tsp. olive oil
12 oz. dry pasta
3 tbsp. unsalted butter
3 tbsp. all-purpose flour
3 cups milk
1/4 tsp. dried parsley
1/4 tsp. cayenne pepper
8 oz. garlic cheddar or white cheddar cheese, shredded
4 oz. crumbled garlic and herb boursin cheese, divided
Salt and pepper
Snipped chives, for garnish (optional)

To roast the garlic, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Remove most of the
outer paper skins from the head of garlic, leaving it intact. Slice off the
top portion of the head so that all of the cloves are exposed at the top, but
the head is still intact. Rub with a bit of olive oil. Place the head of
garlic on a piece of foil and loosely fold the foil up around the head of
garlic to create a foil packet. Bake for 45-60 minutes, or until the cloves
are easily squeezed from the skins (be sure to let cool before handling!)
Squeeze all of the garlic out of the skins and smash with a fork to make a
paste.

Increase the oven temperature to 400˚ F. Bring a large pot of water to boil.
Cook the pasta until about 2 minutes shy of al dente according to the package
directions. Drain in a colander. Return the pasta to the pot and set aside.
Meanwhile in a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Whisk
in the flour and the roasted garlic paste and cook, stirring constantly, until
light golden, about 2 minutes. Whisk in the milk, dried parsley, and cayenne.
Cook, stirring occasionally, until the sauce comes to a low boil and thickens
noticeably. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the cheddar and about 3
ounces of the boursin. Whisk until the cheese is completely melted. Season
with salt and pepper to taste.

Pour the sauce over the drained pasta and toss to coat well. Transfer to a
lightly greased 2 quart baking dish and top with the remaining boursin. Bake
for 15-20 minutes or until the top is browned and the cheese is bubbling. Let
cool at least 5-10 minutes before serving. Top with snipped chives for garnish,
if desired.
