Roasted Winter Vegetable Bread Soup
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook time: 1 hour
Serves 4

3 tablespoons olive oil, divided usage
1 medium leek, white and light green parts only
1 small sweet onion (such as Vidalia, Walla Walla, or Texas Sweet),
                    peeled and quartered
1 stalk celery, cut into large chunks
2 medium carrots, cut into thick slices
1 medium parsnip, cut into thick slices
1 small sweet potato, scrubbed and cut into thick slices

1/4 cup white wine
2 tablespoons flour
4 cups vegetable stock
1 cup water
1 cup red lentils
1/3 cup red quinoa (or regular quinoa)
3 springs fresh thyme, leaves only
2 large leaves kale, thick stems removed, chopped
1 small head cabbage, outer leaves discarded (if damaged) cored, sliced
1 tablespoon flat-leaf parsley, coarsely chopped

1 loaf crusty whole grain bread, 1/2" slices, toasted
1/2 cup finely shredded parmesano reggiano
4 eggs, poached or soft-boiled
Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F

Toss the first six vegetables with 1 tablespoon olive oil and spread out on a
lined baking sheet. Roast in the oven for about 30 minutes, or until the
vegetables begin to brown slightly. Remove and set aside to cool slightly.

Warm remaining olive oil in a 4 to 5 quart stock pot or dutch oven over medium
heat. When the vegetables are cool enough to handle, chop and transfer to the
pot to reheat.

Stir in the white wine, and continue heating until most has cooked off. Coat
the vegetables with the flour and stir well. Add the stock and water, and turn
heat to medium-high. Bring to a light boil, then reduce heat back to medium.

Add the lentils, quinoa and thyme and cook for 10 minutes. Add the kale,
cabbage and parsley and cook 10 minutes more. Taste for seasoning, and add
salt and pepper as needed. Turn heat down to simmer until ready to serve.

Line 4 soup bowls with one slice of bread each. Cut the remaining slices into
4 smaller squares.

Ladle soup into the bowls. Place bread pieces over the surface of the soup in
each of the bowls. Sprinkle cheese over the bread, and top each bowl with an
egg. Serve immediately.
