Roasted Vegetable Lasagna
https://fortheloveofgourmet.com/roasted-vegetable-lasagna/
Claire Dieterich

Prep time: 45 mins
Cook time: 50 mins
Serves: 6-8 servings

12-15 lasagna noodles

Roasted Vegetables:
2 large broccoli crowns, broken into florets
8 oz. sliced mushrooms
1 red bell pepper, chopped
1 onion, chopped
1 zucchini, chopped
Olive oil
Salt
Pepper

Bechamel Sauce:
5 tbsp. butter
1⁄4 cup flour
4 cups milk
2 tsp. salt
1⁄4 tsp. nutmeg
2 tbsp. fresh herbs (I used thyme and oregano)
1⁄2 tsp. garlic powder

Cheese:
24 oz. cottage cheese or ricotta cheese
1⁄2 cup finely grated Parmesan cheese
1⁄2 tsp. salt
1⁄4 tsp. ground black pepper
1⁄2 tsp. garlic powder
1 tsp. dried oregano
1 tsp. dried basil
16 oz. shredded mozzarella cheese

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and prepare lasagna noodles
according to package directions for al dente pasta. Drain and set aside.
Drizzle with olive oil to prevent sticking.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Spread vegetables over two sheet pans
and drizzle with olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and use your hands
to toss to coat. Bake for 25-30 minutes until tender and remove from oven to
cool.

Meanwhile, make your béchamel sauce. Melt butter in a large saucepan. Whisk in
flour and stir until full incorporated. Whisk in milk, salt, nutmeg, thyme,
and garlic powder. Bring to a simmer over low heat and cook until thickened,
whisking frequently to avoid clumps. This will take about 10 minutes.

Transfer broccoli to a cutting board and chop until it is the same size as the
other vegetables. If the florets are too large you will have trouble keeping
your lasagna together. Place all roasted vegetables in a large bowl.

In a medium bowl, combine cottage cheese or ritocotta cheese, parmesan cheese,
salt, pepper, garlic powder, oregano, and basil. Stir to combine.

Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees and prepare your lasagna. Spray a
13 x 9 pan with nonstick cooking spray.

Spread about 1⁄2 cup of bechamel sauce on the bottom of the pan and place 
three lasagna noodles. Top with roasted vegetables, cheese mixture, a few
handfuls of mozzarella cheese, and bechamel sauce. Continue with remaining
layers until complete. I like my final layer to be just bechemel sauce and the
remaining mozzarella cheese.

Bake for 45-50 minutes until bubbling. Allow to cool at least 45 minutes
before slicing and serving.

Enjoy!
