Sabudana Khichdi (Maharashtrian Tapioca Pilaf)
Samin Nosrat
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1021372-sabudana-khichdi-maharashtrian-tapioca-pilaf

Yield: 4 servings as a side or 1 to 2 as a main
Time: 45 minutes, plus 4 to 5 hours’ soaking

1 cup medium tapioca pearls (look for sabudana at an Indian grocer)
3 or 4 small-medium yellow potatoes (about 8 ounces), such as Yukon Gold or
       Yellow Finn
Fine sea salt
1/2 cup raw peanuts
4 to 5 Thai chiles, stems removed, roughly chopped
1 (3-inch) piece fresh ginger, peeled and sliced into 1/4-inch coins
3 tablespoons neutral oil, such as canola
1 teaspoon cumin seeds
1 to 2 teaspoons granulated sugar
1 to 2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 tablespoons roughly chopped cilantro, for garnish

Place tapioca in a large bowl and cover with water. Swirl to release starch,
then drain. Repeat a few times until water runs mostly clear, then drain well.
Return tapioca to bowl, along with 3/4 cup water. Soak for 4 to 5 hours, or
until water is mostly absorbed and tapioca pearls are easily squashed when
pressed between your thumb and forefinger. Drain well, and place into a large
microwave-safe bowl.

Place whole potatoes in a small pot and cover with water. Season generously
with salt and set over high heat. Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer and
cook until completely tender, about 25 to 35 minutes, depending on size.
Remove potatoes from water, allow to cool, then peel, and dice into 1/2-inch
cubes. Add to tapioca.

Set a frying pan over medium heat and add peanuts. Swirling constantly, toast
them until shiny, aromatic and golden brown, about 4 minutes. Pour immediately
onto a plate to prevent overcooking. Wipe pan, and return to stove.

In a food processor, pulse chiles and ginger together until finely minced,
stopping to scrape down the sides with a rubber spatula once or twice. (If you
don’t have a food processor, you can do this step by hand.) Remove 1 tablespoon
chile-ginger mixture, and set aside. Add cooled peanuts to food processor, and
continue to pulse just long enough to roughly chop nuts. Scrape peanut-chile
mixture into tapioca-potato mixture.

Heat frying pan over a medium flame and add oil. When oil shimmers, add cumin.
When cumin begins to sizzle, stir in reserved chile-ginger mixture, and allow
to sizzle but not brown, then immediately pour into tapioca mixture. Add 1
teaspoon sugar, toss and season with salt to taste.

Microwave tapioca mixture on high for 2 minutes, then stir. Continue cooking
for another 2 minutes, then stir again. Cook for another 1 to 2 minutes in
15-second increments, until tapioca is translucent and chewy, but not quite
transparent and clumpy.

Taste and adjust seasoning with salt, sugar and lemon juice. Garnish with
cilantro, and serve hot.
