Sheet-Pan Tostadas With Black Beans and Peppers
Melissa Clark
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019573-sheet-pan-tostadas-with-black-beans-and-peppers
Yield 4 to 6 servings
Time 1 hour

In this vegetarian sheet-pan meal, crisp tortillas are topped with chile-laced
black beans, sweet roasted peppers, avocado and plenty of crumbled queso
fresco or grated Cheddar. A cumin salt, flecked with lime zest and sprinkled
on right at the end, adds both brightness and a musky spice flavor. You will
need 3 sheet pans for this. If you have only 2, crisp the tortillas in a
skillet on the stovetop instead of in the oven.

3 medium bell peppers, thinly sliced (preferably at least one red and one
  yellow)
1 medium yellow onion, sliced
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed
2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more as needed
1 tablespoon chopped fresh sage
4 thyme sprigs
2 (14- to 16-ounce) cans black beans, drained
1 cup canned diced tomatoes with their liquid
1 chipotle chile in adobo, chopped, plus 1 teaspoon adobo sauce
2 large garlic cloves, finely grated or minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
3/4 teaspoon ground cumin
8 (6-inch) corn tortillas
1 lime
Sliced avocado, for serving
Crumbled queso fresco or grated white Cheddar, for serving (optional)
Chopped cilantro leaves, for serving

Heat oven to 400 degrees and arrange racks in the top and bottom thirds of
oven. On a rimmed sheet pan, toss together peppers, onion, 1/4 cup oil,
1/2 teaspoon salt and sage, then spread vegetables out in an even layer. Top
with thyme sprigs, and roast on the top rack until tender and lightly browned,
35 to 45 minutes, tossing every 15 minutes or so.

On a separate rimmed sheet pan, toss together beans, tomatoes, 1/4 cup oil,
chipotle chile and sauce, garlic, oregano, 1/2 teaspoon cumin and salt to
taste. Roast on the bottom rack, stirring every 10 minutes, until juices have
thickened, 25 to 35 minutes.

Brush tortillas on both sides with oil, then arrange in an even layer on a
third rimmed baking sheet (it’s O.K. if the tortillas overlap slightly). Bake
until crisp, about 5 to 7 minutes. Immediately sprinkle with salt while they
are still hot.

To make the cumin salt, grate the zest from the lime. In a small bowl, stir
together lime zest, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, and remaining 1/4 teaspoon cumin.
Cut naked lime into wedges.

To serve, top tortillas with beans, peppers, avocado, queso fresco (if
desired), cilantro and a squeeze of lime from the wedges. Let people sprinkle
on lime-cumin salt to taste.
