Shrimp and Grits

Grits
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 c old-fashioned grits
2-1/4 c whole milk
2 c water
salt and pepper

Shrimp
3 tbsp unsalted butter
1-1/2 lb extra-large shrimp (21-25 per lb),
      peeled and deveined, shells reserved
1 tbsp tomato paste
2-1/4 c water
3 slices bacon, cut into 1/2-in pieces
1 garlic clove, minced
salt and pepper
2 tbsp all-purpose flor
1 tbsp lemon juice
1/2 tsp Tabasco sauce, plus extra for serving
4 scallions, sliced thin

For the grits:
1) Melt 1 tbsp butter in medium saucepan over medium heat.  Add grits and
cook, stirring often, until fragrant, about 3 minutes.  Add milk, water, and
3/4 tsp salt.  Increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil.  Reduce heat
to low, cover, and simmer, whisking often, until thick and creamy, about 25
minutes.  Remove from heat, stir in remaining 2 tbsp butter, and season with
salt and pepper to taste.  Cover and keep warm.

For the shrimp:
2) Meanwhile, melt 1 tbsp butter in 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat.
Add shrimp shells and cook, stirring occasionally, until shells are spotty
brown, about 7 minutes.  Stir in tomato paste and cook for 30 seconds.  Add
water and bring to boil.  Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 5 minutes.

3) Strain shrimp stock through fine-mesh strainer set over bowl, pressing on
solids to extract as much liquid as possible; discard solids.  You should have
about 1 1/2 cups stock (add more water if necessary to equal 1 1/2 cups.)
Wipe out skillet with paper towel.

4) Cook bacon in now-empty skillet over medium-low heat until crisp, 7 to 9
minutes.  Increase heat to medium-high and stir in shrimp, garlic, 1/2 tsp
salt, and 1/2 tsp pepper.  Cook until edges of shrimp are just beginning to
turn pink, but shrimp are not cooked through, about 2 minutes.  Transfer
shrimp mixture to bowl.

5) Melt 1 tbsp butter in now-empty skillet over medium-high heat.  Whisk in
flour and cook for 1 minute.  Slowly whisk in shrimp stock until incorporated.
Bring to boil, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer until thickened slightly,
about 5 minutes.

6) Stir in shrimp mixture, cover, and cook until shrimp are cooked through,
about 3 minutes.  Off heat, stir in lemon juice, Tabasco, and remaining 1 tbsp
butter.  Season with salt and pepper to taste.  Serve over grits, sprinkled
with scallions, and passing extra Tabasco.
