Slow Roasted Whole Chicken Soup
Author: Jess Larson
Prep Time: 30 minutes
Cook Time: 2 hours
Yield: 4-6 1x

For the roasted chicken:
4-5 lb whole chicken, giblets removed
kosher salt & ground black pepper, to season
2 tablespoons olive oil
0.75-ounce pack “poultry blend” fresh herbs (or approx. 2 sprigs fresh
     rosemary, 2 sprigs fresh sage, & 10–12 sprigs fresh thyme)
1 medium yellow onion, thinly sliced
1 head garlic, halved crosswise
1 lemon, cut into quarters
3 bay leaves
1 teaspoon whole peppercorns
64 ounces chicken broth

To finish the soup:
8 ounces wide egg noodles
2–3 medium carrots, finely diced
1 medium yellow onion, diced
1 medium stalk celery, finely diced
kosher salt & ground black pepper, to season

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F, ensuring a rack is positioned in the center
of the oven. 

Prepare the chicken: Remove the chicken from its packaging. Using paper towels,
pat the surface of the chicken as dry as possible. Season the entire chicken,
including its cavity, liberally with 1 tablespoon kosher salt & ground black
pepper as desired. Optional: Using kitchen twine, tie the chicken’s legs
together, securing them tightly against the breasts.

Brown the chicken: Add the olive oil to a large (5-quart), heavy-bottomed,
oven-safe Dutch oven or pot over medium-high heat. Once shimmering, carefully
place the chicken in the pot, breast side down. Brown 3-4 minutes. Using tongs,
carefully flip the chicken, continuing to brown 3-4 minutes per side. Once
browned, position the chicken in the center of the pot, breast side up.

Build the soup: Tie the poultry herbs together using kitchen twine for easy
removal (or finely chop if you do not have twine), then add them to the pot
along with the thinly sliced onion, garlic, lemon, bay leaves, & whole
peppercorns, arranging everything around the chicken. Pour the chicken broth
into the pot, taking care to avoid pouring directly over the top of the
chicken (which causes the crispy browned skin to get totally soggy!).

Roast: Transfer the pot to the oven & roast on the center-rack, uncovered,
for 1 1/2 – 2 hours, or until an instant-read thermometer inserted in the
thickest part of the breast registers an internal temperature of 165 degrees F.
Carefully remove the pot from the oven. Whole roasted chicken soup after
roasting.

Boil the egg noodles: Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add in the
egg noodles. Cook, stirring occasionally, according to package directions, 6-8
minutes. Strain & set aside. 

Cook the veggies: Meanwhile, cook the soup veggies. Add the carrots, onion &
celery to the pot with the roasted chicken stock. Bring to a boil & cook 10-15
minutes, until the veggies have softened. 

Shred the chicken: Meanwhile, as the veggies cook & the noodles boil, shred the
chicken. Remove the chicken meat from the carcass & pull into bite-sized
pieces, as chunky or as fine as you’d like. Add the shredded chicken to the
soup pot, stirring to combine. Cook 1-2 minutes, until reheated. Taste & season
with additional salt & ground black pepper, as desired.

Serve: Add a handful of the cooked egg noodles to a soup bowl. Ladle the
chicken soup over top. Serve immediately, with a slice of buttered crusty
bread, as desired. Enjoy!

NOTES
Storage: Homemade chicken soup will keep, stored in the refrigerator, for up
to 4 days. Transfer cooled chicken soup to an airtight container. If you made
egg noodles for your soup, store it in a separate airtight container. It’s so
important to store the noodles separately – if left in broth or stock for a
long period of time, they will absorb liquid like crazy, which not only makes
the pasta soggy when you reheat it, but also messes with the overall ratio of
liquid in your soup. Reheat in the microwave or on the stovetop.

Freezing: Transfer cooled homemade chicken soup to a freezer-safe container
and freeze for up to 3 months. Same concept for storing pasta separately
applies for freezing – I’d actually suggest boiling pasta fresh when you
reserve the soup. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator. Reheat your soup in the
microwave or on the stovetop.
