Slow Cooker Hawaiian Chicken with Pineapple
http://www.averiecooks.com/2016/03/slow-cooker-hawaiian-chicken.html
Serves: 4 to 6
Prep time: 5 minutes
Cook time: about 2 to 4 hours

3/4 c pineapple preserves or jam
one 20-ounce can pineapple chunks, drained; set aside pineapple chunks
1/2 c ketchup
1/3 c low-sodium soy sauce
1/3 c light brown sugar, packed
2 tbsp rice wine vinegar
1 tbsp lime juice
1 tbsp sesame oil
1 to 2 tbsp Asian chili-garlic sauce (found in the Asian aisle of
       most major grocery stores; sriracha may be substituted)
2 cloves garlic, peeled and finely minced or pressed with a garlic press
2 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp salt, or to taste
1/2 tsp pepper, or to taste
1 tbsp olive oil
1.75 to 2 pounds boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1/3 c cornstarch
3 tbsp fresh cilantro leaves, finely minced for garnishing
3 tbsp green onions, sliced into thin rounds for garnishing

To a large bowl, add the pineapple preserves, pineapple juice (save and set
aside the pineapple chunks), ketchup, soy sauce, brown sugar, rice wine
vinegar, lime juice, sesame oil, chili-garlic sauce, garlic, ginger, salt,
pepper, and whisk to combine; set sauce aside.

Line a 5 to 6-quart slow cooker with a liner if using one. I prefer to use
liners for easy cleanup.

Drizzle olive oil over bottom of the liner or slow cooker; set aside.

To a large, gallon-sized ziptop plastic bag, add the chicken, cornstarch,
seal bag, and toss to coat chicken evenly. Add chicken to slow cooker,
evenly distributed.

Add the pineapple chunks over the chicken, evenly distributed

Pour pineapple sauce mixture over the top, using a spoon to distribute the
sauce if necessary, making sure all pieces are coated.

Cook covered on high for about 2 hours or on low for about 4 hours. If
cooking on high, start checking at 90 minutes (mine was done at 1 hour
40 minutes) and if cooking on low, start checking at 3 hours. All slow
cookers vary so cook until chicken is done (reaches 165F on an instant
read thermometer).

Add chicken and pineapple to a plate with as much extra cooking sauce
spooned over the top as desired, garnish with cilantro, green onions, and
serve immediately. Dish is best warm and fresh but will keep airtight in
the fridge for up to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months. Reheat
gently as desired.
