Matzo Ball Soup a la Mexicana
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1019484-matzo-ball-soup-a-la-mexicana
Yield: 6 to 8 servings
Time: About 4 hours

Chicken Broth:
    2 chickens (2-1/2 to 3 pounds each), or 1 chicken (4 to 5 pounds),
       plus 8 whole chicken wings
    4 large carrots, peeled and cut into chunks
    3 celery stalks, cut into chunks
    1-1/2 medium white onions, peeled and quartered
    1 to 2 Serrano peppers, sliced lengthwise
    1 leek, split lengthwise and cut into chunks
    1 large garlic clove, peeled
    8 sprigs cilantro
    8 sprigs flat-leaf parsley
    2 bay leaves
    About 6 black peppercorns
    Kosher salt, to taste

Matzo Balls
    1-1/4 cups matzo meal
    2-1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
    1/2 teaspoon baking powder
    1/2 teaspoon baking soda
    1/4 teaspoon black pepper
    5 large eggs, 3 of them separated
    1/3 cup grated white onion, squeezed in a dish towel to remove excess liquid
    1/4 cup rendered chicken or duck fat, or use vegetable oil
    3 tablespoons finely minced herbs, such as dill, flatleaf parsley or
       chives, or a combination

Garnishes
    1 small white onion, peeled and finely chopped
    2 Serrano peppers (or 1 jalapeño pepper), seeded and finely chopped
    1 cup chopped cilantro leaves and tender stems
    1 to 2 avocados, diced
    3 to 4 limes, cut into wedges
    1 sprig fresh epazote

Prepare the broth: Place all the ingredients except the salt in a large soup
pot and fill with cold water to cover by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over high
heat, then reduce the heat to medium-low. Skim off any foam, add salt and
simmer, partially covered, until the chickens have fully cooked, about 45 to
50 minutes.

Carefully remove one of the chickens from the broth and transfer to a bowl.
When cool enough to handle, shred chicken and reserve meat, ladling a small
amount of broth over it to keep it from drying out, then cover and set aside.
Discard the skin and return the bones to the pot. Continue cooking the broth
at a high simmer for about 2 hours, adding more water if needed to replenish.
Turn off the heat and let cool. Strain and discard vegetables and bones,
reserving the second chicken for another preparation (such as shredding it to
use in enchiladas).

About an hour before the broth is done, make the matzo balls: In a large bowl,
combine the matzo meal, salt, baking powder, baking soda and black pepper. In
a medium bowl, whisk the 2 whole eggs with the 3 yolks, the grated onion, the
chicken fat and the minced herbs. In another medium bowl, beat the 3 egg
whites by hand or with an electric hand mixer until stiff peaks form. Stir the
egg-yolk mixture into the dry ingredients, then add one-third of the beaten
egg whites and mix until incorporated. Gently fold in the remaining whites
until no streaks remain. Press a sheet of plastic wrap directly onto the
surface of the batter and refrigerate until firm, 20 to 30 minutes.

Line a baking sheet with plastic wrap. Fill a small bowl with water and set
aside. Scoop mounds of the matzo batter (about 1 tablespoon each) onto the
baking sheet. Using the water to keep your hands moist, as needed, roll each
scoop of batter into a ball, handling as gently as possible.

Return the chicken broth to a simmer and season with salt, if needed. Add the
matzo balls as gently as possible and cook over moderate heat, turning them a
few times, until they are plump and cooked through, about 25 to 30 minutes.
Stir the shredded chicken into the soup and cook just until the meat is warmed
through, about 2 minutes.

Serve soup with onions, chiles, cilantro, epazote, avocado and lime wedges on
the side, so everyone can garnish as they like
