Spicy Panko Chickpea Patties

1 cup dry (or 24 oz canned) chickpeas (garbanzo beans)
1/3 cup fresh chopped flat-leaf parsley
2 eggs
1 1/2 teaspoon cumin
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
1 cup panko breadcrumbs, divided
Vegetable oil for frying (I prefer grapeseed or canola)

You will also need: food processor, frying pan/skillet

Place dry chickpeas in a bowl and cover them with 2 quarts of cold water.
Cover bowl with a kitchen towel and let them soak overnight. Drain water from
beans and pat dry with a towel.

Fit your food processor with a metal blade attachment. Place beans, chopped
parsley, eggs, cumin, salt, cayenne pepper and garlic powder into the food
processor. Pulse the ingredients together until a rough, coarse meal forms.
Scrape the sides of the processor periodically and push the mixture down the
sides. Do not over-process or create a paste; you want it similar to the
texture of couscous.

Once the mixture reaches the desired consistency, pour it out into a bowl and
use a fork to stir; this will make the texture more even throughout. Use the
fork to incorporate 1/2 cup of the panko bread crumbs into the mixture (reserve
the other 1/2 cup). Cover the bowl and refrigerate for 30 minutes.

Fill a skillet with vegetable oil to a depth of 1 1/2 inches. I prefer to use
cooking oil with a high smoke point, like grapeseed. Heat the oil slowly over
medium heat.

While oil is heating, pour the other 1/2 cup of panko bread crumbs onto a
plate.  Form chickpea mixture into flat slider-shaped patties using wet hands.
Use about 3 tbsp of mixture per patty. Coat each patty on both sides with dry
panko breadcrumbs.

Before frying my first batch of patties, I like to fry a test the oil
temperature by frying one in the center of the pan. If the oil is at the right
temperature, it will take about 3 minutes per side to brown (about 6 minutes
total). If it browns faster than that, your oil is too hot and your patties
will not be fully cooked in the center. Cool the oil down slightly and try
again. When the oil is at the right temperature, fry the patties in batches of
6 till golden brown on both sides. Once the patties are fried, remove them
from the oil using a slotted spoon. Let them drain on paper towels.

Serve the patties fresh and hot; they go best with creamy tahini sauce. Enjoy!
