Spicy Mexican Shredded Pork Tostadas (Tinga)
The pork can be prepared through step one and refrigerated for two days.
The tostadas can be made a day in advance. Store both in airtight containers.
Serves 4 to 6.

Tinga
2 lbs. boneless pork butt, trimmed of excess fat and cut into 1-inch pieces
2 medium onions, 1 quartered, 1 chopped fine
5 medium garlic gloves, 3 peeled and smashed and 2 minced (about 2 teaspoons)
4 sprigs fresh thyme
Salt
2 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
1 (14.5-oz) can tomato sauce
1 tablespoon ground chipotle powder (or two minced canned chipotle chiles)
2 bay leaves

Tostadas
2/4 cup vegetable oil
12 (6-inch) corn tortillas
Salt
Garnishes
Queso fresco or feta cheese
Fresh cilantro
Sour cream
Diced avocado
Lime wedges

For the tinga: Bring pork, quartered onion, smashed garlic cloves, thyme,
1 tsp salt, and 6 cups water to simmer in large saucepan over medium-high heat,
skimming off any foam that rises to surface. Reduce heat to medium-low,
partially cover, and cook until pork is tender, 75 to 90 minutes. (It is
nearly impossible to overcook this.) Drain pork, reserving 1 cup cooking
liquid. Discard onion, garlic, and thyme. Return pork to saucepan and, using
potato masher (or two forks), shred into rough 1/2-inch pieces. Set aside. (Can
be refrigerated for up to two days at this point.)

Heat olive oil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until
shimmering. Add shredded pork, chopped onion, and oregano; cook, stirring
often, until pork is well browned and crisp, 7 to 10 minutes. Add minced
garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds.

Stir in tomato sauce, chipotle powder, reserved pork cooking liquid, and bay
leaves; simmer until almost all liquid has evaporated, 5 to 7 minutes. (It
should look mostly dry.) Remove and discard bay leaves and season with salt to
taste.

To fry tostadas: Heat vegetable oil in 8-inch heavy-bottomed skillet over
medium heat to 350 degrees. Using fork, poke center of each tortilla 3 or 4
times to prevent puffing and allow for even cooking. Fry one at a time,
holding metal potato masher in upright position on top of tortilla to keep it
submerged, until crisp and lightly browned, 45 to 60 seconds (no flipping is
necessary). Drain on paper towel-lined plate and season with salt to taste.
Repeat with remaining tortillas.

To serve: Spoon small amount of shredded pork onto center of each tostada and
serve, passing garnishes separately.
