Spicy Black Bean Cakes with Avocado Butter
http://acozykitchen.com/spicy-black-bean-cakes/

Yields 6 cakes

1 tbsp olive oil
1/4 cup red bell pepper, seeded and diced
1/2 cup yellow corn kernels (canned, frozen, or fresh)
1 jalapeño pepper, seeded and minced
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 garlic clove, minced
15 oz can black beans, rinsed and drained well
1/2 cup cornmeal
1 large egg, lightly beaten
2 tablespoons fresh cilantro, minced
2 teaspoons hot sauce
3/4 teaspoon salt

Vegetable oil, for the skillet

In a medium skillet over moderately high heat, heat the olive oil. When the
oil is hot, add the bell pepper, corn kernels, jalapeño, and cumin and mix
together. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes until the vegetables become translucent.
Add the garlic on top of vegetable mixture and cook until fragrant, about 1
minute more.

In a medium bowl, using a fork, smash the black beans. Add the warm vegetable
mixture, cornmeal, egg, cilantro, hot sauce, and salt, and mix until
thoroughly combined. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes.

Scoop 1/4 cup of the black bean mixture onto the palm of your hand. Form into
a patty that is 3 inches in diameter and about 1 inch thick. Continue to make
patties with the remaining mixture.

Place a skillet over medium-high heat, and pour in vegetable oil until it
reaches 1/4 inch up the sides. Once the oil is hot, carefully add the patties,
being sure not to overcrowd the pan. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes until golden
brown. Gently flip and cook on the opposite sides for a minute or two.
Transfer to paper towels to drain and then place them in a preheated 200F oven
to keep warm. Repeat the process to cook the remaining cakes.

Serve immediately.



Avocado Butter
Yields 3/4 cup avocado butter

4 ripe Haas avocadoes
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lime juice
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lime zest
1/4 teaspoon ground cumin
Salt and freshly ground black pepper

To the bowl of a food processor, add the avocado, sour cream, lime juice,
lime zest, and cumin. Pulse until smooth. Add salt and pepper to taste.

Serve immediately.

