Sriracha Sweet Potatoes and Avocado
https://www.homechef.com/meals/sesame-sweet-potatoes-and-avocado

1 tsp. Multicolor Sesame Seeds
1 Avocado
3/4 cup Jasmine Rice
18 oz. Sweet Potato
6 oz. Snap Peas
1 Lime
3 fl. oz. Garlic Sesame Sauce
2 tsp. Sriracha
3 oz. Matchstick Carrots 

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Thoroughly rinse produce and pat dry.  Prepare a baking sheet with foil and cooking spray

Bring a small pot with 1-1/2 cup water, rice, and a pinch of salt to a boil.
Reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook until rice is tender, 18-20 minutes.
Remove from burner and set aside covered. While rice cooks, prepare
ingredients.

Cut sweet potato into 1/2" dice. Having trouble cutting that wobbly sweet
potato? Trim off 1/4" along its length and cut that section into 1/2" dice.
Turn sweet potato onto its flat side. You now have a flat base to work from
while you dice remaining sweet potato. Remove strings from sugar snap peas,
if necessary. Quarter lime. Combine garlic sesame sauce, Sriracha (to taste),
and 2 Tbsp. water in a mixing bowl. Set aside.

Toss sweet potato on prepared baking sheet with 2 tsp. olive oil, 1/4 tsp.
salt, and a pinch of pepper. Massage oil into sweet potatoes. Spread into a
single layer and roast until tender, 25-30 minutes. After sweet potatoes have
cooked 15 minutes, cook vegetables.

Place a large non-stick pan over medium-high heat. Add 1 tsp. olive oil,
sugar snap peas, and matchstick carrots to hot pan. Stir constantly until
sugar snap peas are crisp-tender, 2-4 minutes. Stir in 1 Tbsp. garlic
sesame-Sriracha sauce (reserve remaining for sweet potato). Cook until sauce
slightly thickens, 1 minute. Remove vegetables to a plate. Reserve pan; no
need to wipe clean. Halve avocado and scoop out flesh with a spoon. Cut into
1/4" slices across the length.

Return pan used to cook vegetables to medium-high heat. Add sweet potato,
remaining garlic sesame-Sriracha sauce, and half the sesame seeds (reserve
remaining for garnish) to hot pan. Stir constantly until sauce reduces to a
light glaze, 1-2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Plate dish as
pictured on front of card, garnishing with remaining sesame seeds. Squeeze
lime wedges over dish to taste. Bon appétit!
