Stained Glass Cookies

1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon molasses
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg
2 cups flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
30-40 hard candies (such as Life Savers) in several flavors/colors

Pre-heat oven to 375°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or Silpat.

In a large bowl, using an electric mixer, cream together butter and sugars
until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add molasses and vanilla extract, mixing until
incorporated. Add egg and mix until light and smooth, about 1 minute on
medium speed.

Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder. Fold dry ingredients into wet
mixture. Use electric mixer to blend just until flour is incorporated. Divide
dough in half and flatten into two disks. Wrap disks in plastic wrap and
refrigerate at least an hour and up to 2 days.

Remove any wrappers on candies and separate them by color into plastic bags.
Using a mallet to crush candies.

Place one disk between two large sheets of waxed paper and roll to 1/4-inch
thickness. Use cookie cutters to cut dough into desired shapes. Transfer
cookies to prepared baking sheets, about 1 inch apart. Using a smaller cookie
cutter or a knife, cut shapes into centers of cookies, reserving these center
bits to add into extra dough.

Use a spoon to sprinkle the crushed candy into the hollowed-out centers of the
cookies, filling to the edges. Try to keep the candy within the centers. Any
candy specks that fall on the cookie will color the cookie.

If cookies will be hung as ornaments or decorations, poke a small hole in the
top of each cookie before baking.

Bake 9 to 10 minutes. The candy should be melted and bubbling and the cookies
just barely beginning to brown. Remove baking sheets from oven and place on
wire racks to cool. Allow cookies to cool on pans at least 10 minutes;
otherwise, the candy centers may separate from the dough. When cookies are
completely cooled, remove and store in an airtight container. String with
ribbon if you want to hang as an ornament.

Makes 2 to 4 dozen cookies, depending on how large you make them.
