Delicata Squash Stuffed with Orzo in a Sage Brown Butter Sauce
Serves 4 as an entree
Preparation time: 45 minutes

Vegetarian, vegan if you use olive oil instead of the brown butter,
gluten-free if you omit the breadcrumbs and substitute a gluten-free pasta or
other gluten-free grain for the orzo

2 delicata squash
10 T. unsalted butter
3 leaves fresh sage
6 oz. orzo pasta
1 T. lemon juice
1/2 c. dried cranberries, halved
1/2 c. pepitas (green, hulled pumpkin seeds – or substitute chopped almonds)
1/2 c. breadcrumbs (preferably homemade; not panko)
handful of fresh pomegranate seeds
italian parsley
salt
pepper

Carefully halve the squash, remove the seeds (a tablespoon or ice cream scoop
works well), rub with oil and roast in the oven at 375 degrees until
thoroughly tender. When they come out, rub the inside with a little butter.

In a small saucepan over medium heat, melt 8 T butter and allow it to keep
cooking until it develops a nutty / caramel aroma and light brown color, about
5 minutes. Remove from heat. Taste (carefully), it should have a caramel
flavor as well. If not, you haven’t cooked it long enough.

While the butter is still hot, tear the sage leaves and add them in, allowing
them to steep for awhile.

Boil the orzo according to package directions, being sure to leave it al dente.

Drain the orzo. Strain the brown butter, add the lemon juice, and toss with the
orzo. You may not need all of the butter. If you have some left, try it on
popcorn or brussel sprouts.

Toast the pepitas in a skillet, toaster oven, or oven until slightly browned
and smelling good.

Add the cranberries and pepitas to the orzo.

Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Mound the orzo into the squash.

At this point you can refrigerate them for later use, or serve immediately.

To serve, sprinkle on a good layer of breadcrumbs and heat in oven. If
reheating from cold, start covered with tinfoil and remove for the last few
minutes.

Garnish with the parsley and pomegranate seeds, a good finishing salt (such as
Maldon), and a grind of black pepper.

Note: an even better way to do this ahead would be to make the orzo mixture
without the pepitas, and wait to add them and fill the squash just before
heating. That way the pepitas will retain their crunch.
