Thai Curry Risotto With Squash and Green Beans
https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1021947-thai-curry-risotto-with-squash-and-green-beans
Hetty McKinnon

Yield: 6 to 8 servings
Time: 40 minutes

1 1/2 pounds butternut squash, peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes
5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and black pepper
2 shallots, finely sliced
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, peeled and finely chopped
2 cups arborio rice
1/2 cup Thai red or green curry paste (4 ounces)
4 1/2 cups vegetable stock
1/2 pound green beans, trimmed
1 (14-ounce) can coconut milk
4 makrut lime leaves, thinly sliced (optional)
1 lime, halved
1/3 cup cilantro, mint, basil or Thai basil leaves

Position oven racks so that a sheet pan and Dutch oven can fit at the same
time and heat oven to 400 degrees. Add the squash pieces to a rimmed sheet pan,
add 2 tablespoons oil, and season with salt and pepper. Toss and roast until
the squash is tender and starting to turn golden, 20 minutes.

As squash roasts, heat a large Dutch oven over medium. Add 2 tablespoons oil
and the shallots, and cook until they’ve softened, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the
garlic and ginger, and stir until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the rice and
stir until well coated in oil and lightly toasted, 2 minutes. Add the curry
paste and stir until fragrant, 1 minute. Add vegetable stock, increase heat to
high and bring to boil.

Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees. Stir the rice so it does not stick to
the bottom of the pan. Cover with a lid and bake until the rice is just
slightly underdone, about 10 minutes.

As risotto cooks, check the squash. After 20 minutes, it should be just tender.
Add the green beans to the same pan, drizzle the beans with the remaining
1 tablespoon oil, and season with salt and pepper, and season with salt and
pepper. Roast until the beans are crisp-tender but still bright green, 8 to
10 minutes.

Once rice is al dente, move the pot to the stovetop and heat over medium-high.
Add the coconut milk and makrut lime leaves, if using, and stir until the rice
is creamy, about 3 minutes.

Turn off the heat and add juice of 1/2 lime. (Slice the other half into
wedges.) Taste and season with salt and pepper. Serve with lime wedges, and
top with herbs and roasted vegetables.
