Thai Stir-fried Vegetables with Garlic, Ginger, and Lime

Making a "simple stir fry" isn't all that simple. Getting the stir fry sauce
to taste just right is usually a challenge. But my Thai stir-fried vegetables
is a no-fail recipe, mostly because the stir-fry sauce is made before
beginning to fry the vegetables, allowing you to adjust the flavor according
to your taste. Try it as a side dish, or make it the main course. Nuts, tofu,
wheat gluten, or slices of chicken (if you are non-vegetarian)

Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 10 minutes

VEGETABLES: (OR choose your own combination of fresh veggies for this dish)
1 medium-size carrot, sliced
1-2 cups baby bok choy, or other Chinese cabbage (leaves left whole if not too
         large, otherwise cut in half or thirds)
1 red pepper, cut into bite-size pieces
5-6 shiitake mushrooms, sliced, or left in halves or quarters
3 spring onions, cut in thirds
1 small head broccoli, cut into florets
1 thumb-size piece of galangal (or ginger), sliced thinly (matchstick-like
  pieces)
3 Tbsp. white wine or sherry (or cooking wine or sherry) for stir-frying
STIR-FRY SAUCE:
1/3 cup good-tasting stock (vegetarian or chicken stock)
2 Tbsp. fish sauce (or substitute 2.5 Tbsp. soy sauce)
1 Tbsp. lime juice
5-7 cloves of garlic, minced
1 tsp. liquid honey (or substitute brown sugar), plus more to taste
2 tsp. corn starch dissolved in 4 Tbsp. water
1 red chili, minced, OR 1 tsp. chili sauce, OR 1/2 tsp. cayenne pepper
Preparation:

Start by making the stir-fry sauce. Place all ingredients - except garlic and
cornstarch - in a sauce pan over medium-high heat.

When sauce begins to bubble, reduce heat to medium-low. Now add the minced
garlic and cornstarch (dissolved in water). Stir until the sauce thickens
slightly - about 30 seconds to 1 minute.

Do a taste test. You're looking for a balance of salty (fish sauce), spicy
(garlic and chili), sour (lime), and sweet (sugar). Adjust these flavors to
suit your taste.

Place a little oil in a wok/frying pan over medium to high heat. Add the
carrots, galangal (or ginger), and shiitake mushrooms. When the wok/pan
becomes dry, add a little of the wine or sherry, 1 Tbsp. at a time, to keep
ingredients frying nicely. Stir-fry in this way, adding more wine or sherry as
needed, for 2-3 minutes, or until carrots start to soften.

Add the rest of the vegetables plus 1/3 of the stir-fry sauce and continue
stir-frying another 2 minutes, or until the broccoli has softened but still
retains some of its crispness.

Add remaining stir-fry sauce and mix in until everything is hot. Remove from
heat.

Do one last taste test. If not salty enough, add up to 1 Tbsp. more fish sauce.
If too salty, add another squeeze of lime juice. Add a little more sugar or
honey, if desired.

Serve immediately with plenty of Thai jasmine-scented rice and ENJOY!
