Thai Ginger Tofu StirFry
Serves 2
Prep Time: 15 minutes
Cooking Time: 40 minutes
Calories(approximate per serving): 400 

1 package firm tofu
1/2 onion
1 clove garlic
31/2 tablespoons ginger
2 tablespoons oil
3 tablespoons fish sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
3 tablespoons cooking wine
2 tablespoons corn starch
1/2 cup water
4 baby bok choy
1/2 dozen shitake mushrooms
1/2 red pepper
1/2 green pepper
3 green onions, chopped

Preheat oven to 400F. Slice tofu in half width wise and cover in paper towels.
Place something heavy on top and allow to drain for at least 10 minutes. Cut
into small squares. In a bowl place 1/2 tbsp ginger, 1 tbsp oil and 1 tbsp
fish sauce. Toss with the tofu. Put tofu on a parchment lined tray and bake
for 15 minutes, flip tofu and bake for another 15 minutes. Remove.

While the tofu is baking you can prep all your vegetables and cook any grains
you want to serve alongside. Remember this is a stir fry cooked with very high
heat so you need to be 100% ready before you start. Slice the garlic into
slivers and slice the onion into long strips. Combine together. Thinly slice
the mushrooms and peppers. Cut the bok choy lengthwise into quarters or
eighths depending on size. Combine the remaining fish sauce, sugar, oyster
sauce cooking wine and ginger in a small bowl along with the green onions. In
another bowl fork together the corn starch and the water.

When your tofu and grain is done heat a wok to high heat. Add remaining
tbsp of oil and swirl to coat the wok. When it starts to smoke add the onions
and garlic and stir fry for one minute. Add the mushrooms and stir fry for an
additional 2 minutes. The vegetables and work should be constantly moving. Add
the peppers and stir fry until they just start to soften, now add the bok choy.
Stir fry the bok choy for 1 minute and then add the sauce mixture (with ginger)
and tofu. Allow to cook, stirring regularly on slightly reduce heat until bok
choy softens. Bring back up to a boil and stir in the cornstarch mitre. Cook
until thickened. Remove from heat and serve immediatly.
