Turkey Enchiladas
http://mexicanfood.about.com/od/chickenvealandfish/r/turkenchiladas.htm
Prep Time: 10 minutes
Cook Time: 18 minutes
Total Time: 28 minutes

2 cups turkey, cooked and shredded
1 cup salsa
3 1/2 cups green chile sauce
1 1/2 cups jack cheese
4 oz. cotija, crumbled (optional)
15 corn tortillas
1 cup oil, very warm

In a bowl, mix the shredded turkey, salsa, 1/2 cup of green chile sauce and
jack cheese until combined. Dip each tortilla into the oil and lay in pan. Top
tortilla wtih 3-4 tablespoons of filling lengthwise. Fold one side of the
tortilla over the topping, then fold the other side over the first side and
turn the whole thing over to hold the tortilla together.

When all of the tortillas have been rolled and placed in baking dishes, pour
remaining green chile sauce over the top.

Bake in a 350 degree oven for 15-18 minutes. Top baked enchiladas with the
crumbled cotija cheese.

Green Chile Sauce
6 Anaheim chiles
1 tablespoon canola oil $
2 cups chopped onion $
2 garlic cloves, minced $
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour $
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon salt $
1 (14-ounce) can fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth

Preheat broiler.

Place chiles on a foil-lined baking sheet; broil 14 minutes or until blackened
and charred, turning after 7 minutes. Place in a heavy-duty zip-top plastic
bag; seal. Let stand 15 minutes. Peel and discard skins. Cut a lengthwise slit
in each chile. Remove and discard seeds and tops. Chop chiles to measure 3/4
cup.

Heat canola oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add onion to pan;
sauté 5 minutes or until tender. Add garlic; sauté for 1 minute. Stir in flour;
cook 1 minute. Add chiles, coriander, salt, and broth; bring to a boil. Reduce
heat, and simmer 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Place half of chile mixture
in a blender. Remove center piece of blender lid (to allow steam to escape);
secure blender lid on blender. Place a clean towel over opening in blender lid
(to avoid splatters). Blend until smooth. Return pureed chile mixture to pan;
stir well. Remove from heat; cool completely.
