The Ultimate Homemade Green Bean Casserole
https://www.seriouseats.com/homemade-green-bean-casserole-recipe
J. Kenji Lopez-Alt

Active: 60 mins
Total: 90 mins
Serves: 8 to 12 servings

1 pound (450g) shallots, peeled and sliced 1/8 inch thick on a mandoline
2 cups (480ml) canola oil
Kosher salt
1 1/2 pounds (675g) white button mushrooms, rinsed and spun dry in a salad
                    spinner
2 teaspoons (10ml) soy sauce
2 teaspoons (10ml) lemon juice from 1 lemon
2 cups (480ml) low-sodium store-bought or homemade chicken stock
1 1/2 cups (360ml) heavy cream
2 tablespoons (30g) butter
2 cloves garlic, finely minced or grated on a Microplane grater
1/4 cup (30g) flour
Freshly ground black pepper
2 pounds (900g) green beans, ends trimmed, cut into 2-inch segments

Combine shallots and oil in a wok or medium nonstick saucepan. Shallots should
barely stick out above level of oil. Place over high heat and cook, stirring
frequently, until shallots are completely soft, about 12 minutes.

Meanwhile, line a rimmed baking sheet with 6 layers of paper towels. Continue
to cook shallots, stirring constantly, until shallots are light golden brown,
about 8 minutes.

Immediately strain through a fine-mesh strainer set in a heat-proof bowl or
saucepan. Set shallot oil aside. You should have about 2 cups of fried
shallots.

Transfer fried shallots to paper towels. Lift up one end of top paper towel
and roll shallots off onto second. Blot with first towel to absorb excess oil.
Repeat 4 more times, transferring shallots from one paper towel to the next,
until only one paper towel remains. Season well with salt. Allow shallots to
cool completely, about 45 minutes. Once they've cooled, transfer to a sealed
airtight container. Shallots can be made up to 1 month in advance.

Smash mushrooms under the bottom of a large skillet until broken into 1/4- to
1/2-inch pieces. Roughly chop into pieces approximately 1/8 to 1/4 inch in
size. Set aside.

Combine soy sauce, lemon juice, chicken stock, and heavy cream in a 1-quart
liquid measuring cup or medium bowl.

Add 2 tablespoons (30ml) reserved shallot oil (save remainder in an airtight
container for another use) and butter to a 12-inch nonstick skillet. Heat over
high heat until butter is melted and foaming subsides. Add mushrooms to
skillet and cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid is evaporated and
mushrooms begin to sizzle, 6 to 10 minutes.

Reduce heat to medium-high. Add garlic and cook, stirring constantly, until
fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly, until
light golden blond, 1 to 2 minutes. Whisking constantly, add stock and cream
mixture.

Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until mixture achieves a texture
between pancake batter and heavy cream, about 5 minutes. Season to taste with
salt and pepper.

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and preheat oven to 350°F (180°C).
Bring 1 gallon (3.8L) water and 1/4 cup (48g) kosher salt to a boil over high
heat. Fill a large bowl with 1 quart ice cubes and 2 quarts (1.9L) water.

Add green beans to water and boil until tender but still bright green, about
5 minutes. Drain through a colander set over the sink and immediately transfer
to ice water until completely cooled. Drain green beans and set aside.

Combine green beans, mushroom sauce, and 1 cup fried shallots. Transfer to a
9- by 13-inch rectangular baking dish or a 10- by 14-inch oval baking dish.
Bake until hot and bubbly, 15 to 20 minutes. Top with remaining cup fried
shallots and serve.

NOTE: You can use canned fried onions or shallots instead of making your own
in steps 1 and 2. For better results, look for fried shallots in a Thai or
Vietnamese market—but French's will do just fine if that's what you prefer.
Slice the shallots on a plastic mandoline (like a Benriner) to get even
results. The oil used to fry the shallots can be saved in an airtight
container, away from the light, for up to 3 months. Use it for stir-fries or
in salad dressings.

This recipe can be scaled down by half. To do it: Divide all ingredients by
two; substitute a 10-inch skillet for the baking dish listed.

Fried shallots can be made up to 1 month in advance and stored in an airtight
container. Mushroom sauce can be made up to 4 days in advance. Assembled
casserole can be made and stored up to 2 days in the refrigerator. To complete,
cover with foil and heat in a preheated 350°F (180°C) oven until hot, about 30
minutes. Uncover and cook until bubbly, about 10 minutes longer. Top with 1
cup additional fried shallots and serve.
