Vegetable Enchiladas

Sauce:
1 tsp. canola oil
1 onion, finely chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced
3 tbsp. chili powder (I started with 2 tbsp and added more from there)
2 tsp. ground cumin
2 tsp. sugar
2 (8 oz.) cans tomato sauce
1/2-3/4 cup water
Salt and pepper

Filling:
1 (15 oz.) can black beans, drained and rinsed
1 tbsp. canola oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 red or yellow bell pepper, seeded and chopped fine
1 (8 oz.) zucchini, halved lengthwise, seeded and chopped
3 cloves garlic, minced
11/2 cups enchilada sauce (above), divided
1 cup finely crumbled queso fresco or feta cheese
1/2 cup minced fresh cilantro
1/4 cup drained chopped canned green chiles
Salt and pepper

Assembly:
12 (6-inch) corn tortillas
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
Lime wedges, for serving

To make the enchilada sauce, heat the oil in a saucepan over medium-high heat
until shimmering.  Add the onion and cook until softened, about 5 minutes.
Stir in the garlic, chili powder, cumin and sugar and cook just until
fragrant, about 30 seconds.  Stir in the tomato sauce and water, bring to a
simmer and cook until slightly thickened, about 5 minutes.  Season with salt
and pepper to taste.  (This makes more sauce than you will need for the
enchiladas.  The extra can be frozen for later use or passed with the
enchiladas for serving.)

Preheat the oven to 450 F.  Transfer half of the black beans to a bowl and
mash with a fork until almost completely smooth.  Set aside.  Add the oil to a
large skillet and heat over medium-high heat until shimmering.  Add the onion
and bell pepper and cook until slightly softened, 5-7 minutes.  Add the
zucchini and cook just until tender, 3-5 minutes more.   Stir in the garlic
and cook just until fragrant, about 30 seconds.  Stir in the mashed beans and
remaining whole beans and cook until warmed through, about 2 minutes.

Transfer the veggie mixture to a large bowl and stir in 1/2 cup of the
enchilada sauce, the queso fresco, cilantro and green chiles.  Season with
salt and pepper to taste.

To assemble, briefly microwave the tortillas until warm and pliable, about 30
seconds.  Place 1/3 cup of the filling mixture down the center of a tortilla.
Tightly roll up the tortilla and place in a 9x13-inch baking dish, seam side
down.  Repeat with the remaining filling and tortillas.  Pour 1 cup of the
sauce over the enchiladas, spreading it evenly.  Sprinkle the shredded cheddar
over the top of the sauce.  Cover with foil and bake until the enchiladas are
heated through, about 10 minutes.  Remove the foil and continue to bake until
the cheese is melted, 3-5 minutes more. Sprinkle with additional queso fresco
and cilantro for garnish, if desired.  Serve warm with lime wedges.
